This is a market that's very hard to
depress.
>> Some of the weakness is going to get
overlooked in Q4, but the outlook has to
be optimistic for this rally to
continue.
>> You have, you know, a really good
environment, I think, for crossmarket
positioning.
>> There'll be winners and losers.
>> I do anticipate that this quarter we
will continue to see some broadening and
rotation. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, tech stocks bouncing
back. TSMC signals renewed confidence in
the global AI boom. Oil falling as
President Trump is appearing to hold off
on attacking Iran and investors waiting
for Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs to
wrap up big bank earnings on Wall
Street. There are a couple of really
important takeaways here. The first one
is the bar is so high given how much
some of these shares have sold off in
response to otherwise pretty good
earnings. It shows how much has already
been baked into the price. Just saying
that the economy is good isn't good
enough. And then there's a question of
efficiency costs. How much can these
banks really spend tech buildout and on
their staff without wreaking the uh the
wrath of Wall Street? Because people
want to see efficiency. That is the word
of the day.
>> We've had a massive move on our bank
stocks over the last year up by
something like 30% last year. the year
before up by a similar amount. And to
Brammo's point, I've got the numbers in
front of me. JP Morgan one day
performance following earnings down 4%.
Bank of America down almost 4%. Wells
Fargo down almost five. City down more
than three. That's the problem. Bar
super high mixed results. It's not going
to make it happen.
>> People right now are looking for
problems and right now they see a couple
in the banking stocks and part of this
has to do with the political backdrop.
The potential for the punch bowl to be
taken away which had been given to them
with this idea of deregulation. Well,
you know, the question isn't just how
much more can you do in M&A. It's what
are you going to do about a potential
10% cap on credit card interest rates
and that I think is increasingly in the
front focus just because the bar is that
high.
>> The message pretty simple in the last 24
48 hours. Don't do it. That's the
message coming from Wall Street. JP
Morgan very bad for the economy. City
significant slowdown in the economy if
you do this. Wells Fargo, it would have
a significant negative impact on credit
availability. The question is, has the
message really been taken into account
in Washington DC? It's a midterm
election year. The president is
campaigning on this so much in a way
that he's even calling individuals like
Senator Elizabeth Warren to see if they
can get something through. What I would
say is that the 10% cap, first off, if
it happens, it's not going to be 10%.
It's going to be much higher. But
potentially look at the competition bill
when it comes to the swipe fees. That
has a little bit more legs right now in
Washington. The president also weighing
in on the chairman of the Federal
Reserve speaking to our friends over at
Reuters. Some select quotes for you.
Will you fire him? I don't have any plan
to do that. The two Kevins are
apparently very good. You have some
other people too, but I'll be announcing
something over the next couple of weeks.
We still wait.
>> Honestly, this is like the every two
week rolling like you know what's
infrastructure week is going to be next
week. I mean this is sort sort of what
it feels like. At the same time, he was
asked also about the push back from some
Republicans, Republican uh senators in
particular Tom Telus and he said, "I
would hope that they remain loyal and
loyal to whom?" And that was a really
interesting note from him.
>> What I find interesting is the president
also said right now we're in a little
bit of a holding pattern with him when
it comes to Jay Powell. So he
understands that right now there is this
awkwardness when it comes to potentially
if he was going to make his Fed chair
announcement. Interesting. Also, he
ruled out Scott Besset, quote, because
he wants to stay where he is. Scott
Bessett wants to stay where he is. I
still think the president still wants to
try to convince the Treasury Secretary
to move to the other part of town
>> and he's got a few more weeks to do it.
It's like a rolling two weeks.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> couple more weeks we'll make an
announcement.
>> You know, my real takeaway from that
story,
>> Scott Bessant was on Air Force One with
him and spent some time with him and
this was the result.
>> You think that was the conversation?
>> Yeah. Don't fire him. Lay off. this
isn't good for you and I'm not going to
be a Fed chair.
>> Well, according to Fox Business as well,
we have Rick Reer going to be in the
Oval Office today for his Fed chair
interview. So, potentially this dark
horse candidate could rise to the top,
especially if the president hasn't yet
made a decision.
>> Good for Rick. Tracking Rick's career
forever. It's very cool. Rick Reader's
got this chance.
>> Yeah. And you know what? If you become
fed chair, you should come on here and
announce it right here. This seat, it's
waiting for you.
>> And even if you don't become fed chair,
Rick Reer, please come on the show and
tell us exactly how the interview went.
I get a feeling. I've got a feeling he
he's not going to do that. Good luck,
Rick. Equity futures right now, the S&P
500 positive by about a third of 1%.
Coming up this hour, Drew Mattis of
Metife as stocks look to snap a two-day
slide. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy
with the US holding off on intervening
in Iran. And Pier Fargo of New Street
Research as TSMC revives AI enthusiasm.
We begin this hour with stocks rising on
a techfueled rebound. Dream Mattis of
Metife seeing headwinds facing the labor
market writing this. Unemployment should
be moving higher in the coming months.
The Kay may be starting to crack as the
labor market shows signs of weakness.
Drew joins us now for more. Drew,
welcome back to the show. Look, here's
the issue. The employment market has
been weakening for a while now. The
story of the last year wasn't great and
it didn't matter to overall markets. Is
that about to change?
>> Well, I think it might because I think
market expectations are for the first
half of this year to be driven by tax
refunds. Uh, and I've got a sneaking
suspicion that people's tax refunds in
2026 are going to go pay for Christmas
2025. Uh, and so we're not going to get
the boost that the market's expecting.
And so the the hit relative to where the
consensus is is going to be, I think,
uh, significant.
>> Where would you expect that to show up?
We've had a nice run on the equal weight
S&P 500. Likewise, the small caps. Is it
an equity story or something else?
>> Uh, I think it's, you know, first of
all, it's an economic data story. So,
we're going to get economic data. I
think it's going to look like the
consumer is rolling over. Uh I think any
sort of move like that then leads to uh
pullbacks in the labor market. And I
think if you look at things like the
Federal Reserve uh consumer surveys,
what they're showing is is that um job
separation anxiety is really not focused
in kind of the lower income tiers of
society, but the upper income tiers of
society. And so it really means that for
this to play out, it's got to play out
through the labor market channel. And
it's got to move from being a no higher
no fire story to people actually
worrying about layoffs.
>> Drew, in the time when uh information
seems somewhat muddy and we get economic
data, a lot of people raise questions
about it. People are increasingly
looking to earnings for some clues.
Earnings so far have been really good.
The bar is high, yes, but the earnings
particularly for the broader market
seems to be delivering. What are we not
getting right by looking at the earnings
that you see in the overlying economy?
Well, I know this sounds crazy, but
trying to predict the macro with micro
has failed every time, right? You just
can't do it. Uh I haven't seen anyone be
able to do it. You you would think you
should be able to do it. And
particularly now with more data and and
better technology that we should be able
to do it, but it's just not the way that
it works. Bearing in mind that what
you're trying to predict is actually not
necessarily the truth. You're trying to
predict the government's version of what
happened based on surveys, right? So
you're trying to predict the survey
using some survey of your own. So adds
kind of levels of complication. I I I
think that um I think the market's very
optimistic about AI. I think it's
incredibly optimistic about
productivity. I I think it's warranted,
but I think the timing is off. So I
think short term these are all
technologies that a cost a lot of money
and b we have to figure out how to use.
Uh and I don't think we've quite done
that yet. And if if the response to
figuring out how to use it is to not
hire junior people, uh that's a mistake
because the junior people that I'm
seeing coming out of college know a lot
more about AI than anyone I'm currently
working with, right? And so and they use
it and they've used it. They've used it
since high school. And if you get
someone who's used something their
entire life, they use it differently
than people who had to learn to use it
like in in the point in their career
that I'm at. Uh and so I think that, you
know, it could just be that, you know,
firms are going to, hey, we're cutting
back on hiring because of AI. this is
great. Uh, and they wake up three years
later and realize that they they
actually cut back on hiring in the exact
wrong demographic that they should have
cut back on.
>> Drew, you have this uh this feeling that
even if you do get unemployment rising,
you put it through the market channel
and you still get 10-year yields that
are going to be above 4%. How does that
square? I mean, if you really do think
that the K is cracking to the downside
and you are going to get a rise in
unemployment, why wouldn't that lead to
significantly lower yields?
>> Uh, so I'm going I'm going to give away
my rule of thumb for yields. It's
nominal GDP. Uh it's usually a pretty
good measure. It usually works pretty
well. We've got above average inflation
and we've got real growth that's a
little tepid and you net it out and it's
a little above four. Um and it's likely
to be a little above four. And then
think about the boundaries of yields. Uh
if yields go up too far, the Fed will
respond to that and you so you'll get a
cut and then it'll really depend on an
inflation story. Uh whereas if if yields
disappoint or or the Fed stays too high
for too long, uh then yields could fall
and of course that would prompt a
response from the Fed because you're
going to have a weakening economy
causing those yields to fall and they'll
respond by rate cuts. So I I I think
that there's a bound that we're
operating in now. Uh and it's pretty
easy, I think, to see the range of that
bound. Not the exact range, but you can
see that there's an upper limit and a
lower limit. Uh because we have a pretty
good sense of where the economy is
heading. uh we just don't know
necessarily why it's going there um and
kind of what the composition is. But in
in my view of the universe, the
composition doesn't matter. It's the
it's the combo of inflation plus real
GDP.
>> Drew, we've had a plethora of ideas
being thrown out, populist ideas really
from this administration, given this is
a midterm election year. Do you think if
some of these get through Congress, we
actually see them materialize that that
could goose inflation?
Well, I mean, I I think, you know, if
you think about affordability, one one
of the main items on everyone's list
really is is paying your taxes. So, I
mean, I think, you know, in terms of
affordability, it should get better as
kind of the tax law kind of progresses
and and people see that. Um, you know,
if I'm right about them using it for
last year, it might disappoint people,
but at the same point, it it allowed
them to pay for last year. Um, you know,
some of the others are
I'm kind of of the opinion that you you
should do as little as possible. All
right. in terms of of government and
when you're doing as little as possible,
you cost as little as possible. And
therefore, everyone can kind of focus on
productivity enhancing goods, how you
create new businesses and how you how
you create new jobs, which is uh the
whole point of people kind of becoming
entrepreneurs and starting businesses is
is to kind of solve problems for people.
And so the more you're out of their way,
the more problems are being solved.
>> I thought of you yesterday when
Torstston Slock put out his 10 tailwinds
in 2026 because number six was the World
Cup. Do you think that's a real catalyst
for growth this year in the United
States?
>> Uh, it's probably a catalyst for growth
in in the way that kind of anything like
that is. Uh, is it going to be a
catalyst for soccer in the United
States? That one I'm a little more
skeptical on.
>> Drew, what a missed opportunity for that
sport in this country, don't you think?
Just being squandered at the moment by
charging such high ticket prices.
>> Well, if you want to expand interest in
the sport, you know, people have to be
able to see it and they have to be able
to take their kids to it and not have to
take out a second mortgage for it. So,
um I I think it's going to be one of
those situations where uh people post it
on Instagram, they're not watching the
game, and they're the ones standing up
in front of me while I'm trying to watch
the game in the stadium. They're the
ones standing up to get t-shirts,
drinks, you know, food. This is not the
NFL. There's not four minutes between
plays. So, you need to actually sit down
and watch the game if you're going to be
in attendance at the World.
>> You tell him, Drew. Drew, thank you,
sir. Drew Mannis of Metife. Drew, thank
you very much. What a perfect
opportunity. I think the perfect time to
host the World Cup in this country. Back
in '94, way too early. 2026 games really
taken off. You see young people playing
the game in a much much bigger way over
the last couple of decades. And what do
we do? FIFA comes along and charges an
absolute fortune for people to go and
watch.
>> Maybe President Trump is listening and
he's going to cap the fees that people
can pay for these tickets. Look, you're
right about this. This is sort of the uh
the flip side in the United States given
how much wealth there is. And this is
exactly the wealth effect. got to get to
the K-shaped economy, but the fact that
people can pay those ticket prices is
the reason why they are so expensive.
There are enough people who are willing
to pay those incorporations, and this is
part of the issue. How do people who
just want to take their kids to the
game? There's there's another problem,
too, with the State Department putting a
processing visa freeze on 75 countries,
including countries like Brazil. Brazil,
which we know have avid soccer fans,
diehard fans. There's a carveout for the
World Cup, but it could temper some of
that demand of, you know, the hardcore
fans coming to the United States and so
excited for the World Cup.
>> It's why the atmosphere at Arthur is so
bad for the US Open that you end up
getting a bunch of rich guys coming over
from Manhattan who are sipping on $20
drinks and not even watching the sport.
Is that what we want the World Cup to be
this year?
>> Watch the warm-ups. That's the That's my
key to you because they're actually
really fun. I hear you. So, I try to
find the loopholes, right? And the
loopholes are you watch people like
practicing and that's
>> You let us know the loophole. That
sounds kind of sad, but anyway. All
right, let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. President
Donald Trump insisting he does not plan
to fire Fed chair Jerome Powell. The
president telling Reuters he has not
arrived at a conclusion about whether
the Justice Department probe of the Fed
would give him grounds to oust the
chair.
President Trump also signaling he may
hold off on attacking Iran for now.
Trump making the comments after getting
asurances that the government in Tehran
would stop killing protesters. He says
Trump says he was given that information
from what he calls very important
sources.
Black Rockck pulling in $342 billion of
total client cash in the fourth quarter,
pushing the firm to a record 14 trillion
of assets. Investors adding $268 billion
on a net basis to its long-term
investment funds. Black Rockck's
adjusted earnings per share also rose
10% from a year ago to $13.16
beating estimates. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. John Vonnie, thank you.
Thank you very much. More from the big
banks a little bit later over the next
hour or so. We'll hear from Morgan
Stanley and from Goldman Sachs. Need to
check out crude this morning. Up next,
turning down the temperature with Iran.
>> We've been told that the killing uh in
Iran is stopping. It's stopped. It's
stopping. We're going to watch it and
see what the process is, but we were
given a very good uh very good statement
by people that are um aware of what's
going on.
>> Crew down by more than 3% on WTI and on
Bren. Up next, we'll catch up with Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Tech stocks bouncing back this morning.
The NASDAQ 100 high by 0.8%. Decent
numbers, strong outlook coming out of
Taiwan semi ear marking up to $56
billion in capital spending for 2026.
The broader tech ecosystem seems to like
it. hit the NASDAQ higher by 8/10 of 1%.
Turning to crude, check out Brent and
WTI trading lower this morning. Crude
down by more than 3% under surveillance
this morning, turning down the
temperature with Iran.
>> We've been told that the killing uh in
Iran is stopping and it's stopped. It's
stopping and there's no plan for
executions or ex an execution or
executions. I'm sure if uh happens,
we'll all be very upset. We're going to
watch and see what the process is, but
we were given a very good uh very good
statement by people that are um aware of
what's going on.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president shifting his tone on Iran. He
signaled he'll hold off on attacking the
country, at least for now. Joining us
now from Washington is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Good morning, Tyler. What is
the latest on this front?
>> Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Well,
this does mark a shift in tone from
President Trump. The potential for
military strikes still remains on the
table. Though his comments that you just
heard, combined with a top Iranian
official pledging not to carry out
executions has appeared to narrow the
potential that a US attack is imminent
just one day after President Trump urged
Iranians to continue protesting and said
that help was on the way. Our own
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say that
this could be strategic ambiguity and at
this point it's just too early to rule
anything out. Now, there's a few
different signs that we're watching,
including that the US decided to
redeploy American military personnel
from Qatar and other US bases in the
region amid escalating tensions. And a
US official has confirmed that President
Trump has been briefed every day this
week on a potential range of options
from air strikes to cyber attacks to
diplomacy. Though the president did post
earlier on Truth Social that he was
cancelling any meetings with Iranians
before we heard these comments. Now, the
White House's threats have really been
heightened over the past week amid the
US operation in Venezuela that captured
Nicholas Maduro, but also the fact that
we have seen the death toll in Iran
surge. John, according to stat
statistics cited by Bloomberg News from
the Iran's human rights group. The death
toll has now surpassed 3,400 people in
what is considered to be the deadliest
crackdown in the country in decades.
>> Tragic. Tyler, thanks for the update.
Appreciate it. Joining us now to discuss
is Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Terry,
it goes without saying that Iran is not
Venezuela. The population is three times
the size. I think the population of
Tehran is equal to New York City. It has
very, very complicated power structures.
How difficult is it going to be if the
president chooses to intervene?
>> Um, it's going to be very difficult,
John, and good morning. Uh, but I think
what you have to look at here is a very
different geopolitical situation in Iran
than in Venezuela. What I mean by that
is kind of the what I think of as the
concert of nations in the Middle East.
Uh most of which want uh not only want a
more peaceful region uh but they want
and want Iran marginalized uh but they
want that done uh without dramatically
escalating tensions in the region. Uh
that's a difficult locked pick. Uh but
the the president needs to bring those
folks along just as he has uh in the
Israeli Gaza matter over the past few
years. Uh and you know just contrast
that with the Venezuelan situation which
is very different.
>> Terry, will he have the support of
Congress if he were to intervene in
Iran?
>> Um that's a very good question and it's
a bet and it's a better question uh
after the uh after the Venezuelan vote
earlier this week. Uh all white houses
do things well or badly at any given
time. Uh one of the things that this
White House is doing badly right now is
uh is bringing Congress along with it on
a lot of different fronts. And uh you
know the warning shot on Venezuela uh
really is a I think a confirmation of my
view there. uh you know they need to do
a lot more uh spade work with Iran and
geopolitically uh overall uh before they
make a move here to to try to either
have the active support of Congress or
to neutralize opposition.
>> This is just the second week into 2026.
We've already seen the president take
action in Venezuela. How does he convey
these moves to the American public in a
midterm election year? How does he go
out and say this is part of quote
America first?
Well, he should and uh you know and then
the easiest messaging there is something
along the lines of uh you know that you
know we're keeping national security is
economic security. We're trying to keep
uh America safe abroad in order to make
America safer at home. That sort of
thing. And uh but beyond that uh you
know he needs he needs to get much more
contextual with the American public and
start really explaining uh the stakes of
a lot of things uh a lot more. He's got
a lot of division in his uh in his
coalition right now. Uh I wouldn't say a
lot of them are actively opposing him,
but uh there's a lot of people who have
colder feet than they did a few months
ago. He's going to need to warm that up.
Uh same of course uh exists with
domestic policy. Uh but he's really
going to need to to to start having
people understand what the stakes are.
Part of his part of his base gets that
part of it doesn't.
>> Terry, what the stakes are includes who
the friends are and who the enemies are.
Do you think that it's clear which
international allies have the loudest
voice when it comes to talking with the
president right now?
>> Uh do I think it's clear? No. I think
there's uh there's an awful lot of folks
who are uh who are jockeying for
attention and uh you know to some extent
that's the way the president likes it. I
mean if you're you've got people
swirling around you kind of uh spoke and
wheel style uh it uh it increases your
freedom of maneuver and that
fundamentally is what Trump wants. He
doesn't want just the ability to act. Uh
the ability to act implies the freedom
to maneuver. So, a lot of his strategic
ambiguity, as Tyler put it, uh is
designed to achieve exactly that. Uh so,
you know, the the more he's got
competition for his ear and the more
he's got competition for potential
geopolitical goals, I think the frankly,
the better he likes it. Uh that makes it
more difficult to translate into uh into
clarity for the American public. Uh but
that's a chance he's willing to take
right now, judging by what how he
operates. Terry, something we've been
talking about over the past couple of
weeks, and I'd love your thoughts on
that. How do you understand sort of the
flurry of different orders coming out of
the White House, the different folky
fosai focuses, whether it's geopolitical
or whether it's domestic that seem to be
whips-sawing markets and whipsawing
Capitol Hill.
>> Well, I think he uh I think what markets
see is uh is a lot of different uh a lot
of different smoke being thrown up for a
lot of different reasons. I mean there's
uh the the strategic ambiguity on Iran
we've already talked about for example.
Same thing applies on a lot of domestic
things. Uh you know the credit card
matter is uh is a perfect example of
this. I feel like I've been talking
about swipe fees literally forever. I
think the first time it came up was 20
years ago. The uh but uh a lot of that's
being put up frankly as part of the
affordability pitch to uh to appeal to
his uh independent base. the one that uh
helped him get elected in 2024. I'm not
poo pooing this by saying it's just
about politics. Trump has an Trump has a
history of following through, but uh
people need to understand that, you
know, he he's going to do everything he
can to to uh to goose his own coalition
uh to keep Republicans
in the majority in the House and the
Senate uh next year. Part of that is
making sure that he's flooding the zone
and uh and kind of even stealing ideas
from the other side and kind of
relegating that to uh uh to niche stuff
whereas everything else ought to be
about him. It ought to be about gooing
his vote. I hope that helps.
>> Terry Haynes helpful sir as always.
Thank you. Terry Hannes of Pangia
Policy. Lisa to your point whipsoring
equity market not so much the bond
market. This incredibly tight range in
the 10-year continues. The low intraday
all year 412, the high 420 operating in
an eight basis point range for the year
so far.
>> There are two ways of looking at this.
Actually, there are three ways of
looking at this. The first way is that
the balanced risks are so balanced
they're whipssawing each other at the
same time to create a balance. The
second thing is that actually regardless
the economy is sort of chugging along in
this disinflationary productive boom,
which is exactly right. And then the
third is completely complacent and not
paying attention at all. Which is it?
>> Toss stock of Apollo pointing out
yesterday. You mentioned it. No, this is
going to be a hot economy this year.
We'll debate that in just a moment. Up
next, we'll catch up with Pierre Faragu
of New Street Research as TSMC drives a
rebound in big tech. Plus, Voli has your
morning mover as shares of Spotify
rising this morning on higher
subscription prices. That name up by
2.5%.
back-to-back losses on the S&P 500 for
the first time so far this year. Pulling
back from all-time highs this morning, a
bounce on the S&P 500 by a third of 1%.
Worth pointing out though, as many of
you have already, it's not really about
the market cap weighted S&P 500 so far
this year. The equal weight on a
five-day winning run. the Russell so far
this year higher by almost 7% midway
through January.
>> Nine consecutive days of outperformance
by the Russell 2000 versus the S&P 500.
That is the longest streak going back to
2017 and the last time it was more than
nine days. You have to go back to 2008.
What's interesting about this, it's not
coming with interest rate cuts that are
expected in the market. You've seen
actually two-year guilts rise during
that time. So, there's something else
going on here.
>> A better outlook for growth. the torso
view of the world for 2026 maybe
>> exactly what's it telling us I mean
that's sort of the question you know is
good news good news thank you Stuart
Kaiser
>> yields up on the front end of the curve
by just a single basis point equity
futures looking at the Russell up by
around about a third so far this morning
as we cut you down to the opening bow
let's get you some morning movers some
single names let's cross over to Vonnie
for more Vonnie
>> hey John well we're back in the embrace
of the AI trade it sort of feels like
home doesn't it once again TSMC coming
out with a forecast saying that sales
will be up by 30% in dollar terms and
capex spending would be $56 billion.
Now, both of those numbers surprised
analysts and investors, and as you can
see, it's being reflected in the stock.
Now, interestingly, Applied Materials,
which is obviously a big supplier of
TSMC, is having the halo effect. It
already hit a record in Amsterdam
trading today, but Applied Materials is
now the Nvidia really of the European
stock market. It's only the third
company ever to reach half a trillion
dollars in market cap, which it has now
done behind LDMH and Novo Nordisk. And
now, as goes applied materials, so goes
the European market. All right, let's
move on because Soho House is another
stock on the move today, up more than
12%, you remember it tried to IPO a
couple of times. Things didn't work out.
Then it announced that deal for a take
private operation back in August. Now it
has secured funding for that deal up to
$200 million worth. It would value the
enterprise at 2.62.7 billion including
debt. And that group is led by MCR
Hospitality. And then Spotify is also
higher today, up 3%. This stock has
lagged the broader market. It's only up
about 8% which I know it's not terrible,
right? But 8% over the last 12 months.
It's going to increase subscription
pricing uh just by a dollar from next
month. So you're talking $12.99 instead
of $1.99 a month. It's been battling
YouTube and apparently algorithm
fatigue, which I think is something we
might start to hear a lot more about.
>> There we go. Bonnie, thank you. Thanks
for the update. Spotify this morning up
by 3%. On our radar this morning, Iran
reopening its airspace after temporarily
halting most incoming and outgoing
flights. The closure coming as tensions
continue to grow with the US and
nationwide protests throughout the
country. Elsewhere, Greenland and
Denmark saying, quote, "A fundamental
disagreement remains after meeting with
top US officials. Germany taking the
lead among European nations sending
military personnel as it tries to help
the island avoid a US takeover. And
finally, the White House holding off on
a new tariffs targeting imports of
critical minerals." President Donald
Trump instead seeking to negotiate
agreements with foreign nations, warning
import restrictions remain on the table.
>> So, he's keeping the option open. This
has to go back to an investigation that
was started um by the Commerce
Department in April under section 232.
They're concerned about national
security concerns, but at the same time,
we need these minerals for our defense
sector. The biggest issue they have is
if there was going to be a flood of
really cheap levels into the United
States, that would hurt the small
industry that the United States have.
and then potentially think the president
would look at potentially putting on
those duties. But for now, he wants to
go back to the negotiating table.
>> Well, if I were a silver trader and I
was looking at this, I'd say uhoh.
Because ultimately, how much is this
part of what we have seen with this rip
roaring rally that we've seen in silver,
not to mention gold and tin and aluminum
and all the others in copper because the
idea was you got to stockpile this stuff
to get ahead of any potential tariff.
Well, if you don't have to stockpile it,
what does that do? Well, it looks like
any kind of selloff in silver has faded.
So, a real question here about how
significantly this was behind some of
the rise in prices. Nonetheless,
interesting to watch.
>> Not the only pillar driving the silver
trade. Of course, silver up by what,
150% just last year.
>> Yeah,
>> this morning we're down about 2%. Small
fry. 9129. Let's turn back to tech.
TSMC's blockbuster earnings driving a
major rebound across chip stocks. The
chip giant projecting as much as 56
billion in capex for 2026. Bloomberg's
Peter Alstrom joins us now for more.
Peter, looking at the size of those
numbers, do you see any sign that this
story is slowing down?
>> Well, it was a very interesting report
from TSMC, of course, closely watch
because they make chips for Nvidia and
many others in the industry, including
Apple and Qualcomm. And the conference
call after the results was very
interesting. Um, as as mentioned
earlier, revenue is expected to go up uh
close to 30% this year. They're boosting
their capbacks from 40.9 billion last
year to this range of up to 56 billion.
So, it's a very sizable increase more
than 35%. So, it does not look like it's
slowing down at all. But the CEO CC had
some very interesting comments to say
afterwards. He got some questions about
is AI demand really going to meet the
the expectations here? And he said it's
not clear whether AI demand is real or
not. He said he's very nervous about
that. He said they're talking talking
about investing up to this 56 billion
dollars. She said if we don't do it
carefully that'd be a big disaster for
TSMC. So there is a note of caution even
though of course this is driving stock
prices not just at TSNC but also ASML
here in Europe and apply materials in
the US as alluded to earlier.
>> Peter help a man out. How do you invest
$56 billion carefully? How does that
work in practice?
>> Well TSNC of course is expanding a lot
in the United States. Uh so we we have
this trade deal between the US and
Taiwan that's under discussions right
now. TSMC has been investing uh in fabs
in the US. They want to make more of
their chips in the US. That's certainly
good for the US economy. They have been
very clear though they want to keep the
most cutting edge chips in Taiwan. For a
long time, they only made chips in
Taiwan because it's easier to control
quality. The manufacturing process for
chips is so difficult, so complicated
that it helps to have all the engineers
very near each other. It's also worth
talking just for a moment about their
their margins though. their margins.
Now, they're looking at them going up to
63 to 65%. This is actually higher than
what they want. You don't hear companies
talk about this very much, but their
long-term target has been to keep that
around 55%. Part of the reason is they
are the company to go to for the most
advanced chips that are out there. They
don't want their customers to go
someplace else. They want to keep
margins low. They want to offer some
affordable price prices so they keep
getting all that business from Nvidia,
Apple, and all the other important
customers that they have.
>> Peter, we appreciate your time. Thanks
for the input this morning. Thank you
sir. Bloomberg's Peter Astrom there with
the latest to extend the conversation.
Pierre Feder of New Street Research
joins us now for more. Pierre, look at
those numbers from TSMC. Is that the
good news this ecosystem needed?
>> Yeah, it's fascinating news. Um it's um
we we really highlighted TSMC as um as a
primary name to look at this year for
the AI trade and um they actually beat
um our expectations on what they said.
What's really interesting in what they
say is actually they are the only ones
to really give like a 5-year outlook to
2029 with some good granularity and
that's really the numbers you want to
look at. So what what uh what TSMC said
implies that this year uh what they're
going to sell to their AI customer is
going to more than double in 2026 and
after that it's still going to grow 30%
a year to 2029. So we are still in a
setup where growth is very very strong
continues to be re revised up and we
have already fairly strong industry
visibility on the duration of this
growth to towards the end of the decade.
That's fairly impressive.
>> Pierre John was asking this question how
do you invest in invest 56 billion
carefully and I kind of think of tech
CEOs as therapists trying to reflect the
mood of markets at any given time. And
right now people are looking for caution
because they're looking to poke holes in
this narrative. What about what TSMC
said actually relieved them, gave them a
sense that this would be done with
enough caution that wouldn't leave them
high and dry?
>> Yeah, it's an excellent question. If
there is one organization in this world
that can invest $56 billion with
caution, it's TSMC for a very simple
reason. They're going to invest this
money in fabs that nobody else can
deploy
and the risk they take is actually
relatively narrow. They only risk to
spend that money too fast. So let's say
they spend 20 56 billion this year and
everybody revised down their needs for
AI chip at the end of this year. they
would be what six months ahead of
timing, a year ahead of timing of normal
timing in terms of um how much capacity
they need to add to their fabs. So the
risk for TSMC is actually very limited.
Now if you are a memory manufacturer, if
you're another player, there is a risk
of over capacity uh on your side and the
side of your competitors that creates
far more complex competitive dynamics.
But when you are the only game in town
actually the risk is much more limited.
How much PR do you expect them to
accelerate their investment in the
United States right now given the
concern about China and Taiwan and any
potential conflration militarily there?
>> Well, when you go to Phoenix and see
already TSMC employing maybe now close
to 20,000 people and all the fabs
building up um they are actually
pedal to metal in terms of the pace of
investment in the US. I think it would
be difficult for them to go faster than
the plan they have today and we're
talking you know towards the end of the
decade having like in excess of 100,000
refer starts uh manufactured in the US
at the leading edge um and um what what
you could expect is that it's only going
to be the beginning and and the
footprint of of TSMC in the US uh is
going to continue to expand now in order
to do that you're talking about tens of
thousands of jobs of highly skilled uh
employees is so it actually takes a lot
of time to create like um the pipelines
the university pipelines the job market
pipeline to do that and it's um so so I
wouldn't expect them to go faster
because they're already go going very
very fast
>> Peter made brought up a point that this
is being discussed right now part of the
Taiwan trade pact with the United States
and TSMC would have to pledge to build
at least four more chip manufacturing
plants how long would that take
um you know like the first wave took
like um is it six six seven years and
now things are going to go maybe twice
faster. So maybe three four years uh
before you see you start seeing these
fabs ramping up and then another three
four years for the fab to fully ramp
like so an additional four fabs fully
utilized maybe maybe six seven years
it's it takes time before you go I want
to squeeze in a final question the
number one conversation I'm having at
the moment offline is something not many
people are willing to talk about online
in fact I had a conversation with an
equity strategist just last week and
once the conversation finished they
stood there just to my left I'm not
going to say who it was and they said
the number one question I've had from
clients is what happens if open AI goes
bust if they go under what happens
Pierre are you getting the same question
and what are you telling people
>> yes I get the the same question um like
my first that's one of the two main
questions I get and my answer to that is
simply well if openai goes under that's
because of competition from Microsoft
and um Amazon like entropic and Amazon
uh and most importantly Google uh that
doesn't mean the AI opportunity is not
there and today OpenAI
and Enthropic combined represents $30
billion of uh recurring revenue. So it's
like the highest quality revenue you can
imagine and that revenue grew 4x in the
last 12 months. So, OpenAI is sitting on
the most incredible opportunity uh we've
ever seen and they're only a startup.
So, they could go best because they have
like very very tough competition and
like the comeback of of Google in that
space in the last 6 months is probably a
source of concern for OpenAI and I think
they agree with that. Uh so, they could
get into trouble but that wouldn't mean
um the um the AI race and the need for
more silicon especially for TSMC would
would go with it.
>> Yeah. Thank you, sir. appreciate the on
the record comment. Thank you Pierre
Faragu there of New Street Research.
Interesting when you ask them what's the
number one question you get from
clients. It's like top two maybe number
one.
>> Well, because it has inflated and I'm
talking about OpenAI has inflated some
of the valuations of data centers in
particular which affect a pretty broad
uh ecosystem of financial firms in terms
of who's invested in that. So not only
yes there is the demand but is there
going to be building a bridge to nowhere
essentially? Is there going to be Meta,
for example, buying data centers that
they don't even need to use just so that
you don't get open AI buying them? That
is really the key question.
>> A better story this morning at least for
the tech sector. The NASDAQ is higher by
0.8% with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn for
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump saying Ukraine leader Vadomir
Zalinsky is the main obstacle to an
agreement to end its war with U with
Russia. The president telling Reuters
Vladimir Putin is quote ready to make a
deal.
Another shooting in Minneapolis. A
federal officer shot a man in the leg
last night. A spokeswoman for the
Department of Homeland Security says the
shooting followed a targeted traffic
stop. The man who was trying to flee in
his vehicle crashed into a parked car
and then took off on foot. He was
reportedly shot while trying to evade
arrest.
And Verizon restoring service on its
wireless network after a widespread
outage yesterday. down detector logging
more than one and a half million reports
over the course of the approximately
10-hour outage. Verizon saying it'll
provide account credits to affected
customers and apologizing for the
disruption, but not giving any
explanation for what caused its network
to go down. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Thank you very much. Up next on
the program, consumers still spending.
>> You're seeing that consumers are out
there still spending. So I think the the
underlying pace of of income growth has
been a bit of a challenge with just the
jobs market slowing.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Greg Dho of
EY Pathon from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. A little bit later this morning
in the next hour, you'll have results
from Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.
Look out for that. Into that, your
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 positive by a third of 1%.
The Nasdaq bouncing back this morning,
high by 0.8%. Better numbers out of TSMC
lifting the tech sector. The one to
watch for the year so far has been the
Russell up by almost 7% for 2026. Up
this morning by a tenth of 1% pulled
back from record highs on a market cap
S&P 500. Just seen the equal weight
outperform the small caps outperform. Is
it another head fake or is this the
story for the year ahead?
>> We started last year. The rotation was
it. This was the year when big tech was
going to fall behind and everything else
would be the adoption trade. Let's go.
People are saying the same thing this
year and we are seeing it in the
performance. Is this time different and
does it really rely on tech adoption or
maybe something else?
>> Well, let's talk about the something
else, the economy. Under Savannah this
morning, consumers still spending.
>> You're seeing that consumers are out
there still spending. So, I think the
the underlying pace of of income growth
has been a bit of a challenge with just
the jobs market slowing. At the end of
the day, consumers still have their jobs
even if you are seeing a more sluggish
jobs market. So, we're seeing that
filter through in spending. And while I
think you're seeing some underlying
inflationary pressures begin to
dissipate, it's it's only happening
gradually.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Retail sales rebounding by the most
since July, signaling continued consumer
resilience. Greg Der of EY Pathon
writing, "Consumer strength is largely
supported by higher inome households,
but that won't last forever." Greg joins
us now for more. Greg, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Any signs it's fading? I think what we
are seeing and this continues to be the
case is this increasing bifurcation but
it's not as simple as people make it
sound. Uh what you have is essentially
the have nots the have and the have a
lots and that bifurcation is much
broader than just a simple K-shaped type
of environment. And I think that matters
a great deal because what we're seeing
in terms of labor market developments in
terms of income developments is key in
driving the outlook in 2026. We are
going to see two realities at the same
time. Average growth for consumer
spending and for the economy is still
going to be relatively healthy around 2
2 1/2%. But there is going to be an
increasing number of individuals that
face these headwinds from reduced income
growth from a still high interest rate
environment and from an environment
where prices and cost remain elevated.
That is going to constrain a large share
of the population, those that are at the
lower end of the income spectrum and
median end of the income spectrum. But
the people that are above that are still
going to be able to trend relatively
well in this environment.
>> So let's park the have a lots. Yeah. Are
you suggesting that the have nots that
stress is going to migrate up income
groups to the halves?
>> It has been. It has been. If you look at
the trends in terms of income growth,
you can see that income growth for the
lower income trenches of the population
is under pressure. It is fading more
rapidly. And so while average wage
growth is still around 3 three and a
half% which is what it usually is in
normal times you are seeing this
downward pressure for lower income
groups and that downward pressure in
terms of wage growth is indicative of a
labor market where labor demand is
fading faster than labor supply. It's
not alarming yet because we've had a
massive negative shock in terms of labor
supply. So that the break even rate is
very close to zero. But the fact that
over the past 3 months we've seen
negative job growth is a telltale sign
that income growth for the rest of the
year is going to be under downward
pressure.
>> Are rate cuts the best way to deal with
this?
>> Not necessarily. Uh rate cuts are
helpful in the sense that they help on
the margin ease some of the credit
stress. But the reality is that we are
not seeing necessarily that credit
stress be the key hamper in terms of
economic activity. If you look at what's
driving economic activity right now,
it's the three A's that I've mentioned
before, the three narrow pillars of
growth, affluent consumers, AI
investment, and asset price
appreciation, stock market gains, which
we've been talking about for the
morning. Those three pillars are still
very much present and they're not as
influenced as sensitive to interest
rates as we might believe.
>> At the same time, financial markets are
very sensitive to interest rate cuts.
And this is a fear out there. I share
it, but let's just put it out there as
generic that if the Fed does cut rates,
it inflates the valuations of a lot of
asset prices, which feeds the wealth
effect, which feeds inflation, because
the higherend consumer is the one that's
spending and the one that's benefiting
from some of these gains, which only
makes that K-shaped or whatever shape
you're talking about that much wider.
Why isn't that a more likely path of
travel if the Fed were to cut rates
aggressively right now? I think that's
potentially a real risk in terms of
inflation dynamics because we often tend
to think of technological revolutions as
being a productivity enhancing
revolution that eases inflationary
pressures. But the first thing that we
have to keep in mind is that for any
technological revolution you need
capital investment and capital
investment tends to be inflationary. It
puts pressure on resources and tends to
lead to higher inflation. So in the
short run you can actually have
inflationary pressures on the sectors
that are most intensively using that
technology or putting a lot of efforts
in driving that technology establishing
that technology and that is where you
can get some sources of inflation. But
if you look at the underlying trends in
the US right now you're not seeing much
inflationary pressures. There are two
conflicting crossurrens. One tariff
induced inflationary pressures on the
goods front but highly uneven goods
price inflation around 1.4% 4% right
now. It's not excessively concerning.
It's up from a deflationary environment
in normal times. But at the same time,
you have disinflation coming from the
housing and shelter side of the picture,
which is very strong and was key to the
driving up inflation in 2021 and 2022.
Now, it's a key factor driving inflation
lower. So, I'm not excessively concerned
about inflation right now. We're
probably going to be trending back
towards 2 and a half% by the end of the
year. It's not excessively alarming and
I think most Fed policy makers will be
on that page which is essentially
considering what economic data is doing
because the policy rate is very close to
that neutral range and there isn't
really a need for immediate movements in
in interest rates.
>> Are there risks though in Washington
with policies that could be risky for
inflation moving to the upside? Yeah, I
mean there are significant risks in
terms of one the tariff outlook, two the
immigration outlook which I think is
under discussed but in an environment
where we're seeing massive negative
pressure on labor supply from aging
demographic from potentially a shrinking
population by 2030 we are going to be in
this environment where the the the
scarcity of resources can put upward
pressure on inflation not in the short
run but really in the long run. That's
really where where I'm most concerned is
that there is a risk that we see
persistently higher inflation not around
2% but around 2 1/2%. Which could become
a binding constraint for the Fed because
the mandate is essentially 2% inflation.
Whether I am concerned about 2 1/2%
inflation is a different question. I
think there should be a band of
tolerance around 2% that allows for
policy makers to have more latitude in
adjusting monetary policy and not be
focused on this pinpoint estimate of 2%.
>> Aren't they operating as if they have
one already?
>> Yeah, that's exactly what I was
thinking.
>> They might they might uh but they would
never say that uh unless there is a
change in the framework uh and you know
how difficult changing the framework can
be and how politically sensitive it can
be in the current environment. So I
would argue that this type of band
around 2% maybe 50 basis points around
2% would make a lot more sense. It would
have made a lot more sense before the
pandemic. Remember we were arguing about
a couple of tents to get up to 2%. And
there was this question around does the
policy need to be tightened when
inflation is approaching 2%. I think
that band of tolerance would help a
great deal.
>> Greg DO of E. Greg. Thank you sir.
>> Thank you.
>> Some might argue that band's maybe a
little wider.
>> Oh it's already existed. We have a 100
basis point band and basically we've
been experiencing that since 2020 and
this is the reason why people say that
they've already adopted this. It's just
don't worry it'll get there.
>> We'll just carry on as as if nothing
changed.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. Sure. Equity futures right now in
the S&P 500 up by a third of 1% in the
next hour on Bloomberg surveillance.
Kevin Gordon of Charles Swap. Jason
Ferman of the Harvard Kennedy School.
Jerro Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
Jason Thomas of Carlile. numbers,
earnings, results from Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs in the next hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> This is a growth story.
>> We've seen really resilient growth.
>> You have inflation coming down, growth
resilient.
>> We're still in a K-shaped recovery.
You're seeing some underlying
inflationary pressures begin to
dissipate.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg's surf starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by
around about a third of 1%. The
outperformance on the Nasdaq this
morning. Thank you, Taiwan Semi. The
Nasdaq up by 0.8%. And for the hour
ahead, it's all about two names.
Earnings from Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs. So far, not great for the
financials on the Wall Street. The
numbers are decent, but the stock
reaction not great at all. And we've
seen that from bank after bank after
bank over the last two days. And
>> it seems like investors have been really
looking for reasons to not be impressed.
And it seems like each one is a
different reason. Whether it's the costs
are too high, whether it's that
investment banking revenues missed and
that deals were pushed to 2026 as we saw
in JP Morgan's case. When it comes to
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, they
are investment banks at their core. So
the key question will be less about the
10% cap on credit cards and less about
some of these more consumer-facing
businesses and much more about what they
do with respect to M&A, with respect to
the deals, with respect to issuance and
going forward what the economy really
looks like.
>> That was a little bit of a weak spot for
some of the names that maybe the boom in
M&A that we thought we'd see we didn't
get. They're trying to flank that it's
going to come in 26. And I wonder if we
see the same thing from Goldman and
Morgan Stanley later this morning.
>> And if we don't, do people call on some
of the other banks that have talked
about push deals? In other words, is
competition getting incredibly steep for
some of these banks. It's going to be an
interesting check on that narrative.
>> Morgan Stanley up by 0.7%. If you can't
ask them about credit cards, ask them
about central bank independence. That
question's come up a few times this week
as well. The president's weighed in
speaking to our friends over at Reuters.
Will you sack him? The chairman, Jay
Pal. I don't have any plan to do that.
What about a new announcement to replace
him? You'll hear something over the next
couple of weeks.
>> Another two weeks, another two weeks,
another two weeks. When he hasn't have a
firm decision, he usually just punts it.
The Treasury Secretary said we would get
an announcement for before or after
Davos. So basically January. So he has
two more weeks actually to this point to
make that announcement. We do have Rick
Reer going in for an interview today
according to Fox Business. And then
after Rick comes out of that interview,
he is done. All the Fed candidates will
have their interview and it's up to the
president to make his decision. He says
the two cabins are very good, but the
guy he wants doesn't want the job
because he wants to stay where he is,
said the president and that's Scott
Besson. Do you think that Jamie Diamond
is the last one to really talk about Fed
independence and the rest of the banks
eels be like?
>> Yeah. Do you think that that's what's
going to happen? I mean, if they get
asked about this, you be like, I think
that enough's been said about this and
our views are clear. Thank you. Next. I
think the JP Morgan seuite is quite
unique and the CEO there seems to speak
his mind in a way that other central
bankers or rather other bankers don't.
I'll say this about the race. I don't
really understand what's going on here.
It kind of made sense at the beginning
that we'd have this shadow Fed share get
announced early. That individual be
super doubbish and would compromise the
outlook that chairman Pal was trying to
deliver. I understood the strategy
there. I don't understand the strategy
here. It seems to have galvanized other
members of the committee to push back,
get people to dig in, to see the
chairman on a Sunday basically push back
so publicly. I don't think any of that's
good to get lower interest rates. And if
you want lower interest rates, this
ain't working.
>> Well, if you were a TV producer and you
wanted to make the Fed interesting,
well, congratulations. Great. You've
made the Fed interesting. Again, I do
think there also is this potential
scapegoat hanging in the wings so that
any point if you worry about
affordability, you can say, "Hey, guess
what? This guy, he's not good." And I
think that it's nice to have that
scapegoat around. Also, if you're used
to getting what you want, you will just
continuously try to get what you want,
which is trying to get his Treasury
Secretary to agree to take that job.
>> I don't think you want to do things that
lead to an otherwise unwarranted
tightening of financial conditions. And
that's what you risk it at a time when
the economy is expected to pick up going
into the new year. Tax refunds people
are going to spend. It's a good story to
tell right now. A better story if you're
patient about it. You don't want to
upset that. You really don't.
>> Pient. What was that? Patient long term.
misplaced probably not understanding
>> we're all impatient. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 positive by a
third of 1%. Coming up, Kevin Gordon of
Charles Swap as stocks bounce back from
yesterday's losses. Jason Ferman of the
Harvard Kennedy School on the political
blowback from the Fed investigation and
Jerro Cassidy of RBC as Goldman and
Morgan Stanley wrap up bank earnings. We
begin this hour with stocks finding a
firmer footing. And this is what Kevin
Gordon a charab has got to say saying
this week's volatility is proof of an
eye-shaped instability economy writing
unstable environments bring less
reliable probabilities and forecasts
because of rapid change. Kevin joins us
now for more. Kevin, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We're seeing a lot of rapid change. How
unstable is this environment?
>> Um it's, you know, pretty unstable. I
mean it has been the norm for uh the
past few years. I mean, you could argue
for the the majority of the
post-pandemic cycle. But I think
especially as we've learned, you know,
year to date, 2026 is only 15 days old,
but it feels like a year, but you know,
there has been a lot happening in the
face of what has been largely a
resilient equity market. Doesn't feel
like it as much at the index level,
especially in a cap weighted index
sense, but you look under the surface
and there has been a relatively healthy
move over the past few months. I I think
that you have to kind of parse it out
between it's not necessarily just a I
think a cyclical upswing in terms of the
economy getting stronger all of the
sudden because financials haven't been
participating as much. So it's been a
little bit more I think geared towards
some geopolitical instability evidenced
by the move that we've seen in energy um
and to some extent materials. But I
think that you know generally the
catch-up in small caps, the catch-up in
the equal weighted indexes, not just at
the S&P 500 level but at the individual
sector level um that has shown how the
market has been relatively resilient but
also keeping in mind that the S&P 500 is
not the ultimate gauge for how America
is doing. So there is that distinction
there and when we wrote our outlook for
this year we were careful to point that
distinction out. There is a big
difference in a bifurcation.
>> Is it just a catchup or is this a
sustainable rotation for the year ahead?
You know, I think something especially
for small caps because that tends to be
the focus a lot when you talk about a
broadening and when you talk about a
catch-up um there there has been a
meaningful shift in the earnings
trajectory for even something like the
Russell 2000 often gets pointed to and
painted at at you know as this you know
really sort of negative index and and
kind of lowquality index because of the
percentage of companies in there that
don't have earnings. But you look at the
turn in forward earnings estimates for
the Russell not just in absolute terms
but relative to the S&P 500. This is
sort of the first time that we have seen
a more durable and meaningful turn over
the past few years. I think it's always
a stretch to say, yeah, we could just
extrapolate that out for the year. But
at the same time, when you look at just
from a sentiment perspective, how hated
small caps were last year and you look
at the flow statistics in terms of
outflows from small caps into large
caps, at some point that starts to work
against, you know, the large cap bias
and work more in favor of of small caps.
>> Why? Why are profits going up? Is it
because of efficiency and cutting back
jobs? Is it because ultimately the bar
is just so low that you know people are
just excited that they see signs of
life?
>> Yeah, I think I mean you know I I'll
quote what the first thing that uh Lzan
ever taught me in this business which is
that when it comes to market and
economic data better or worse matters
more than good or bad. So when you start
to have a little bit of an inflection
higher that catches fire and that that
tends to act as the spark and the
catalyst. So again it's not to say that
this is just going to you know last in
perpetuity. I think in Wall Street, you
know, it's often we often think in terms
of, oh, this it's an either or. You have
to be all in on this or all in on that.
That's not how it works in reality. So,
I think that yes, that can happen in
fits and starts. We don't expect this to
be a linear move, but when you get to
conditions that are so der for small
caps like we had last year, you have the
sentiment component, you have the
earnings component finally starting to
turn, that tends to lead to a pretty
durable move.
>> So, upside earnings surprises could be
the spark. Are Fed rate cuts the oxygen?
I you know I think they help but I you
know much to the conversation that you
were having with Greg. Um I I don't
think that rate cuts are the elixir for
what ails the economy. I mean you can
look at almost any chart of economic
data most importantly payrolls. Put a
vertical line at April of last year and
you can clearly see where a lot of the
weakness started to kick in. So I think
it's pretty clear that most of the
stress probably rests on the policy side
and what has happened in the past year.
Um not to say though that rate cuts
won't help but that's not what has been
restricting the economy. um when you're
sort of ranking things that have been
and I think that especially when you
look at the nature of inflation in the
post-pandemic cycle, most of it has been
on the supply side and it's been supply
driven. Some of that started to change
in the back half of last year where it
has shifted a little bit more to the
demand side. So that's where rate cuts
do become more of an important, you
know, player in that game. But I think
we also have to respect the fact that
this has been more of a supply shock
driven environment.
>> When it comes to policy risk, you
mentioned the Lisa Cook ruling. Does
that have more weight potentially on Fed
independence than what's going on right
now with Jay Powell?
>> You know, it's tough to say because I
think that the Powell stuff is still so
much in flux. I mean, we don't
necessarily know how that's all going to
net out. Nobody does because it's so
new. But I think for the Lisa Cook
ruling, yes, in the sense that if it
does go against her, there is a there is
a pretty big chance for that to really
change the construct of the Fed, not
just for this administration, but in the
future. um especially because of
governor terms specifically designed to
basically insulate the Fed and the board
from that from that political pressure.
>> Would that be a market positive because
people would start to think potentially
we get more rate cuts?
>> I don't think it would be. I think that
you know history is pretty consistent
with the fact that if central banks lose
their independent status um in whatever
form or fashion that tends to be
inflationary in the long term. I think
that especially when you know think
about what matters most for central
banks and for the institutions in any
country but especially the US they
matter most in times of crisis. So when
you have a moment like early 2023 when
you have 2020 when you have 2008 to 2009
that's when you look to them to provide
whether you agree with it or not that's
when you look to them to provide that
kind of stability and stimulus or or
triage. So if you can't rely on that as
much in the future, not saying that
that's necessarily the case, but if that
does become the case, then you weaken
the credibility of any institution.
>> This is not moving the dial on
expectations at all. In fact, tension
really ramped up Sunday evening and then
what happened this week, Mike Freder JP
Morgan came out, you highlighted the
note, he's not forecasting any cuts for
the rest of the year, even with a new
Fed chair.
>> Yeah. And right now, the market really
started to price that in, but then
plateaued. So yes, they might not cut
rates. It isn't necessarily going to be
politically motivated. Uh but at the
same time people are kind of looking at
this and say I mean you're right markets
have been shockingly stable and I I go
to the question you know is it
complacency or is it a question of just
looking through the noise and seeing
that the market's going to win.
>> I don't know but think about what
effectively essentially foli is
forecasting care he's forecasting a new
Fed chair being voted against every
single meeting for the rest of the year
when he comes on board. Part of my
problem with that is that that means the
other Fed members are not going to
necessarily be looking at the economic
data as much as they are trying to uh
thumb their nose at the president. And I
don't think that that's actually what
we're hearing from the Fed members. I'm
going to give them the benefit of the
doubt that they actually are looking at
the economic data. And unless you get
some sort of real rebound in the economy
otherwise they are on pace to cut for
two more times this year. So unless
something changes dramatically in the
economic picture, are you really going
to think that all the members are going
to be that politically motivated against
the Fed?
>> No. I'm suggesting the economy and I
think this is what they're forecasting
is good enough not to cut interest rates
and they'll vote against any individual
that's coming on board to try and vote
interest rates when it's not warranted.
>> Yeah. I guess the question is uh is that
really the consensus right now on the
Fed and is that really what we're going
to see in the data and that might be the
JP Morgan view and that might come with
some stimulus but the real question is
is the economy that strong especially if
you do see the labor market picture.
>> I mean JP Morgan has also seen the
economy do so well that not even rate
cuts are off the table for this year but
they're talking about a hike
>> 207.
>> Kevin you want to final word? Um I I
would say that you know in terms of the
the stability in markets you know from
Sunday night into Monday the the big
distinction that has to be made is
between front page risk and bottomline
risk. Um for companies for the broader
economy we've learned that even with
tariffs over the past year. Yes it was a
huge front page risk at the beginning. I
was it was a bottom line risk too but
then you had the dialing back and the
series of delays and now we've gotten to
a place where we know that companies
have been able to stomach it relatively
well of course up the large cap
spectrum. I would put the economy and
the central bank right now in a similar
position where there has to be a lot
fleshed out in terms of Powell, in terms
of Cook before you can arrive at at a
definitive conclusion for what that's
ultimately going to mean for the
>> diplomatic Kevin, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you. Kevin
Gordon there swap. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us
is Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Taiwanese officials
are heading to Washington to push ahead
on a long stalled deal to lower US
tariffs. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Taiwan's vice premier and top
trade representative are expected to
arrive as soon as today. It's unclear if
a deal will be finalized and which US
officials will participate.
Denmark's foreign minister agreeing to
set up a working group after meeting
with Secretary of State Marco Rubio and
Vice President JD Vance in Washington
yesterday. Denmark also announcing plans
to beef up its military presence in the
Arctic. Germany, Sweden, Norway, and the
UK are also sending troops to help
protect Greenland from President Trump's
takeover firms.
A crew of four astronauts landed back on
Earth after departing the International
Space Station. They cut their trip short
by about a month because of a medical
issue on board. It's NASA's first ever
medical evacuation of the ISS. The
agency is working to accelerate the
arrival of the next crew, which could
arrive as early as midFebruary. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Up next, political blowback.
>> If suddenly the threat of a lawsuit can
take a chair out of play, how can
anybody think that that's anything more
than a de facto end ending the
independence of the Fed?
>> That conversation up next with Jason
Ferman at the Harvard Kennedy School
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
in the next 15 minutes results earnings
from Goldman Sachs and likely Morgan
Stanley into that futures positive by a
third of 1% on the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq
up by 0.8 Eight unders this morning.
Political blowback.
>> If suddenly the threat of a lawsuit can
take a chair out of play, how can
anybody think that that's anything more
than a de facto end ending the
independence of the Fed? And we all know
what that does to markets worldwide. I
will block any effort to name any member
of the Fed board until this matter is
resolved. It's either got to be fully
adjudicated uh or they don't move
forward with an indictment and they
close the case. Here's the latest this
morning. A growing number of Republican
lawmakers breaking rag with President
Trump as the Justice Department
continues its criminal investigation
into FedJ Pal. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for the latest from
Washington. That push back really
building Tyler over the last week.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Well, despite what has
now become a list of Republicans raising
concerns about the Department of
Justice's investigation into Fed Chair
Jerome Powell, President Trump maintains
that he is unconcerned, telling Reuters
that he thinks that these lawmakers
should be loyal in his words. I will
point out that for the most part, the
Senate Republicans who have come to
Powell's defense aren't on the ballot
this election year. Now, President Trump
characterized this situation as a
holding pattern, telling Reuters that as
of now, he has no plans to fire the Fed
chair, but said that it is too early to
know whether or not this investigation
will give him grounds to do so moving
forward. Now, of course, as you well
know, there is a very high legal bar to
remove a Federal Reserve official from
office, a protection that was bolstered
by the Supreme Court. This White House
would have to prove cause, typically
meant to mean malfeasants or neglect of
duties related to the job. Now, despite
this investigation, the president
maintains that he has plans to nominate
a new Fed chair in the next few weeks.
It had been our understanding that that
announcement would come sometime this
month, but it really could be
complicated by these efforts on Capitol
Hill. As you just heard from Senator Tom
Tillis, he is threatening to block any
nomination from advancing out of the
Senate Banking Committee until the legal
matter is resolved. And he really could
because Republicans only hold a 1311
majority when it comes to Senate
banking. Now, in terms of the other
Republicans we have heard from, there's
been perhaps a little bit more of a
measured response, but Dave McCormack,
also Kevin Kramer, two Republicans on
that committee, say that they do not
think that Powell committed a crime.
POW, uh, John, we'll have to see how
much this escalates. Congress does have
some other tools that they could invoke.
I'll point out that Senator Lisa Mowsky,
a Republican from Alaska, is now calling
on Congress to investigate the
Department of Justice's investigation.
>> Tyler Kendall in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Let's talk about those
unintended consequences. Jason Ferman of
the Harvard Kennedy School has this to
say on the Fed probe. It will also raise
the hurdle for whoever Mr. Trump
nominates as the next Fed chair and it
will make other members of that body a
lot less likely to go along with the
president's agenda. Jason joins us now
for more. Jason, welcome to the program.
Consequences. We've not seen a
tightening of financial conditions off
the back of this pursuit over the last
year. Jason, would you call that
complacency or just faith in the
institution, the resilience of the
Federal Reserve? Um, I think that
largely reflects faith and resilience.
There was that brief moment last year
when it looked like Donald Trump might
be ready to fire Jay Powell. Markets
really did trade on that, but once they
got reassured and they've gotten
increasingly reassured by the courts, by
the Senate, by others, um, I think
they're correctly reading the Fed's
independence, at least in the short run.
Jason, if you were in the White House,
would this mean that the individual the
president picks, the credibility of that
person, the bar just got a lot higher?
>> Um, absolutely. I mean, I would have
wanted a very credible person to begin
with. Um Ken Rogoff wrote a famous paper
I think 40 years ago that basically said
you want a more conservative and
credible central banker even than you
yourself are conservative um and
credible and it will benefit yourself to
have that and have that at arms length.
Um I wish President Trump understood
that.
>> Do you think the potential of Jay Powell
staying on to continue his term as
governor has now increased because of
what is going on with this subpoena?
It's absolutely increased. I mean, he'll
have to watch what happens to the Lisa
Cook case in the Supreme Court next week
and what the administration's follow-ups
are there. He'll have to see what the
new chair is and how they're running the
committee. Um, you know, we're used to
thinking of this as a chair dominated
place and we talk about what the chair
wants to do. There are 12 voters there.
We've seen an increasing number of
dissents and this whole process is only
going to encourage even more dissents
against the chair the less credible they
are. Ironically, possibly the less
ability they're going to have to deliver
what Donald Trump wants them to.
>> Jason, it's incredibly ironic that this
dispute and the subpoena was over the
Eckles building. The last Fed chair to
stay on as governor after being Fed
chair was Mariner Eckles and this was in
the media aftermath of World War II to
try to keep uh some sort of
independence. It also was at the time of
the creation of Breton Woods. Do you see
this as an analogous period in history
for the Federal Reserve where it
reshapes the way it really is perceived?
>> I think it's a less reshaping the way
it's perceived and more sort of
doubletapping and locking it in. Um
Eckles was at a time when um and even
for the next several years, the Fed
works closely with the Treasury. It
actually wasn't independent. We had
fiscal dominance. They kept interest
rates down to help us deal with the
postw World War II um debt. Um now
Powell has been handed a Fed that's
enormously independent, enormously
credible. Um and his job isn't to forge
something new, but keep that. And he's
doing a very very good job at keeping
that. You could argue, Jason, that
regardless, this is going to be a more
politicized era for any central bank
given how much debt there is and how
instrumental the rate setting policy is
to the interest expense of the country.
I mean, at what point should that be
part of the Fed's mandate to sort of
keep that within control uh with by all
means necessary in order to both reduce
funding costs, but also with an eye on
inflation? And why is that not an
appropriate way to set policy? Look,
there's a great way to reduce the
federal government's interest bill, and
that's some combination of raising taxes
and cutting spending. And the more the
political system thinks that there's
some other way um through the Federal
Reserve, the less likely they are to
raise taxes and cut spending. So that's
in some ways I actually think our fiscal
situation makes it even more important
to make it clear to the political system
that the path the easy path is not
there. They need to take unfortunately
the somewhat harder but much better for
the economy in the short medium and long
run way out of this.
>> My understanding is that the subpoena
was delivered on Friday. The chairman
decided to release a video as the
markets were opening in Asia Sunday
night. Did he increase the stakes with
this rare video message? Could he have
just replied to the subpoena?
>> Well, he could have handled it on all
sorts of ways. Um I think he handled it
absolutely brilliantly. Um he is not
somebody who is eager to be out there.
This is not a resistance lib. This is
someone who has a lot of credibility
with markets with former economic policy
makers. I joined a statement with a lot
of them on this with senators as you
were just hearing on your show. And the
fact that he felt the need to speak out
and do it in this way signal to all of
these people this has gone way past
where we were in Trump's first term when
he was just doing mean tweets about Jay
Powell. It's much much more serious. And
he alerted us to that. I guess my
question is though, did he make it more
political as well?
>> In some ways he made it less political.
Look at how bipartisan the reaction has
been on his side. Um, in even the
administration is digging in and
defending this much less than they
usually dig in and defend the things
they're doing. I think he handled this
in a very appropriate professional
manner. And yes, in some sense it is a
little bit political. Um, but it's not
partisan politics. It's using political
skills to defend a very apolitical
institution. Jason, just finally, I
think you'll find broad consensus, of
course you will on Wall Street about the
benefits of operational independence.
Something about Sunday and the following
24 hours did make me feel somewhat
uncomfortable though. It felt like that
these guys were just untouchable, that
you had all this support worldwide.
Jason, how do we maintain a degree of
accountability even as we look to
preserve independence?
Look, normally on on the our show your
show, we'd be arguing about should they,
you know, cut rates by 25 at the next
meeting, not cut rates. There's an
enormous amount of criticism of the Fed
constantly, incessantly from everyone,
as there absolutely should be. These are
really tough decisions. A really robust
debate helps those happen. They testify
to Congress, etc., etc. So, this is not
an institution operating, you know, in
secrecy, independence with no comment.
It is not above reproach. It just is
above being teared down in the way that
Donald Trump wants to tear it down.
>> Jason, appreciate your opinion this
morning, sir. Thank you. Jason Furman
there at the Harvard Kennedy School.
Just getting some big results from
Goldman Sachs. I'll go through a couple
of the headlines and we'll come back in
just a moment. Equities trading revenue
coming in at 4.31 billion, the estimate
3.65. Fixed sales and trading revenue
coming in at 3.11 billion, the estimate
2.95. The stock is higher by 4/10en of
1%. We'll get the view of Jerro Cassidy
of RBC in just a moment. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Wrapping up earnings on
Wall Street. Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs had just moments ago. Futures
positive by a third of 1% on the S&P
500. Some very large numbers coming out
of Goldman with the latest results.
Let's cross over to Danny Ber. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It's a beat for Goldman Sachs.
Let's go through the main numbers here.
Fixed sales and trading for the fourth
quarter. Beating at $3.1 billion. The
estimate was for just under three
billion. Equities trading that comes at
$4.3 billion. The estimate for that was
3.6. They're also going to be increasing
their quarterly dividend. The investment
banking revenue that comes in just below
the prior quarter $2.58 billion. This is
a segment that executives had been
flagging as animal spirits reawakening
deal pipelines looking strong. So the
fourth quarter a little bit weaker than
the third. Maybe it's like of the likes
we saw from JP Morgan where things have
been delayed. One of the reasons you're
seeing Goldman shares little change
might be because of this. It's something
that the weight on the other bank
results. It is their total operating
expenses. Those come in much higher than
expected, $9.72 billion. The estimate
was for $8.8 billion. So again, maybe
that's why you're seeing Goldman
underperform. It is the best performing
bank over the past year of the big six
banks. Let's compare that to Morgan
Stanley. Now, you can see there Morgan
Stanley uh that is doing better today.
Expenses did come in less than expected.
You're looking at its equities trading
revenue. This is interesting. Coming in
below Goldman Sachs. To remind you,
equities trading at Goldman Sachs is
$4.3 billion. At Morgan Stanley, it was
$3.7 billion. The reason this is
interesting is cuz Morgan Stanley had
taken back the equities trading crown.
It looks like they are now seeding that
to Goldman Sachs. Their debt
underwriting, this is also a huge push
from the new CEO, Ted Pick. That is a
handily beat. $785 million is their debt
underwriting fee they've garnered for
their investment bank. The expectation
was 635. So in these parts that accounts
debt underwriting uh wealth management
also outperforming numbers look very
solid for Morgan Stanley. John
>> Danny appreciate the update. Let's cross
over back to Goldman Sachs. Several
lines of businesses to drill down on.
Let's just pick out one issue. Equity
trading revenue not an issue at all.
Todd Gillespie of Bloomberg wrote this
one up for us. Netting an all-time Wall
Street record for the final three months
of the year. Yeah, you saw for just uh
in terms of equities trading revenue
$4.3 billion. The estimate had been
$3.65 billion. I mean they beat by uh
almost a billion dollars. I mean just to
sort of point out how significant some
of these are and it raises a question
especially given that their investment
banking also beat whether you actually
are seeing a slowdown or whether
competition is getting very stiff
especially among some of the banks that
are traditionally the investment banks.
is interesting that expenses really is
front and focus. It just shows that
after the best performers have had such
an incredible year, people are looking
for the pitfalls more than they are the
positives that you know Goldman Sachs
even increased their target for their
wealth management business at a time
where they see that coming as well. And
they don't even have the Apple card to
worry about.
>> Goldman Sachs up by 210 of 1% and Morgan
Stanley up by 1.2%. They don't have to
talk about the credit card business on
the call. That's probably good news.
>> They probably can do a victory lap.
They'll say, "Yeah, we got rid of it
just at the right time." You're welcome.
>> Jared Cassidy of RBC joins us now for
more. Jared, welcome to the program.
Look, decent numbers from those two
companies and we've seen this through
much of this week. This is what we saw
from JP Morgan. Okay, results. Stock
down 4%. Bank of America pretty decent.
Stock down almost 4%. Same with Wales.
Same with City and Jared. Morgan
standing in Goldman Sachs putting up
some massive numbers and a stocks belly
moving. What's the takeaway, Gerard,
from this week,
>> John? Part of it is obviously what we
saw with the comments about limiting
credit card interest rates. That's
what's affected the names you mentioned,
the money centers that reported earlier
in the week. Um, but when it comes to
Goldman and Morgan Stanley, obviously
they don't have credit cards. And what I
think the action is showing us today is
that we've built into the model some
very strong numbers. And the stocks, as
you both know, have had a very good year
in 2025 and their valuations today are
very rich. So the high bar that's out
there, they they met it, but they didn't
greatly exceed it like they were doing
all of last year.
>> Jared, what does that mean? Not for the
outlook for the company, but the outlook
for the stock for the year ahead.
>> John, it's a good point. And we've been
advising investors that we think the
play for 2026 is financial. So we're
still there, but we think the leadership
may change to the regionals to what you
just brought up. Again, the investment
banks have put up very strong numbers,
but we've already baked them into the
models. So when you think about the
second derivative, John, the rate of
change, the rate of change
year-over-year for the investment banks
is going to get more difficult through
the year. Whereas in the regional banks,
I think it's going to improve. And I
think that's what people are now
contemplating.
>> I'm going to ask the TMZ question of the
morning. Who won, Morgan Stanley or
Goldman Sachs?
Well, I I don't want to uh go make a
tough decision, but they both did very
well. So, I I would say that both
companies, if you look at different
parts of their business, the advisory
business at Morgan Stanley was
incredible this quarter. And at Goldman
Sachs, you guys have touched on it. The
trading business, equity trading, very
good. So, they both had standouts. So,
they're both, you know, top tier. I
guess if you had to choose one, you
probably would choose maybe Goldman or
Morgan Stanley, but they're both very
good.
>> Do you think that they're actually
winning share from the likes of the JP
Morgans that talked about deals getting
pushed into 2026 given that they both
beat on some of their investment banking
revenues and JP Morgan actually missed?
>> I I would say that uh I don't know if
they're taking share because they're all
those top five banks are all very
strong. They might be taking share
though, Lisa, from you know the
investment banks and the the trading
firms that are ranked anywhere from 10
through 15. That's maybe where they're
taking share. But amongst the big guys
themselves, I'm not so certain they're
taking much market share away from one
another. And and it also changes quarter
to quarter. You know, the long-term
trends, the bigger banks are getting
bigger. Economies of scale are very
important in the trading businesses. It
also seems like there's a bifurcation
right now, Gerard, versus uh companies
that have banks that have a bigger
exposure to consumers defined as mom and
pop stores and and just individuals who
want to buy cars and homes and banks
that have consumers that are high- netw
worth individuals that want to put money
into a variety of different assets. How
is wealth management kind of the maker
or the breaker of so many of these
companies?
Lisa, you're making a good point because
we've seen from the analysis by the
Department of Commerce and others that
the top 10% of households in America
account for about 50% of consumer
spending. And as you know, consumer
spending is twothirds of the US economy.
And that ties into the wealth management
businesses. And when you look at all of
our estimates including my own in
January of 2025 of these uh investment
banks as well as the money centers and
then you look at the actual numbers at
the end of 2025 the upgrade or the
increases in estimates were driven by
investment banking trading but wealth
management wealth management had a very
strong year last year. JP Morgan's
wealth management business has a return
on equity of about 40%. That's
incredible. It's been a very profitable
business for the players in that market.
>> Jared, the political backdrop was meant
to be a fertile environment for some of
these big names on Wall Street and we've
seen that in the stock reflected in
those names, the rally we've seen over
the last 12 months. Is there something
about the change we're seeing to the
political backdrop in a midterm year
with the focus on affordability that
lends itself to your idea that the trade
the long trade and financials might be
somewhere else away from these big
players? I I think John the the the the
underlying theme out of Washington,
regardless of what we just saw with the
comments about the credit card uh
interest rate cap is deregulation. As
Treasury Secretary Besson has been very
clear, they want deregulation and we're
seeing it. The the regulators are
deregulating the banking industry. The
big ones coming this quarter. We believe
the Basel free endgame. it will be less
ownorous than what we saw in the summer
of 23. So that long-term trend people
should not uh overlook because it is in
place. It's continuing and there was a
big distraction of course this past
weekend with the interest rate cap. But
we think that's political. That's not
structural.
>> You think that's just a distraction
though, Jared? That's not the story for
the year ahead.
>> I do think it's a distraction, John. I
really do. I I'd be surprised. Don't get
me wrong, there will be a lot of
discussion about it, but when you look
back, you think back what happened. You
know, the big banks are already saying,
"If you force us to lower the rates to
10% across the board, we're going to
have to cut back on extension of
credit." And John, look what happened
during the Carter administration when
they did that in 1980. They cut back on
consumer credit. We immediately went
into a major recession, which they
quickly changed. So, the point I I
really would be surprised if that goes
through. Well, your memory is a lot
longer than many of those in Washington.
Maybe the credit card interest rate cap
might not go through, but there's a lot
of momentum right now and there has been
uh for really years, but potentially the
president could push over the finish
line when it comes to competition with
swipe fees. What would that do to the
sector, Gerard?
>> That's true. The there's always been the
debate over swipe fees. You might
remember something called the Durban
amendment that was passed about less
than 10 years ago and they were supposed
to pass on the savings to the consumer
which was really tough to figure out if
they did. But yes, the swipe fees are
under pressure. That is a trend that's
likely to continue and that would
certainly lower some of the
profitability for the credit card
companies. And yes, competition is incre
in increasing from the non-banks, the
fintexs, and the big banks are obviously
gearing up for this new increased
competition.
>> Jared, thank you, sir, for catching up
with us over the last couple of mornings
on a financials. Jarrett Cassidy there
of RBC. Danny's got a recap of
everything. We can ask Lisa's question
to Danny because she'll answer it
directly. Danny, you've been going to
wrap up the quarter for us. The big
banks on Wall Street, the results are
in. Who won the quarter this quarter?
>> Oh, can I answer that? Look, if it's
talking about trading, it's got to be
Goldman Sachs. But if it's based on
expectations, Morgan Stanley is
outperforming everywhere that they
needed to show up. They needed to show
up on debt underwriting. This is
something that Tedpic has really
emphasized. And show up they did easily
beating expectations, their asset
management business. This is the crown
jewel. We're talking about margins.
Pre-tax margins at 31.4%.
They pulled in a bunch of new assets,
$122 billion in the fourth quarter,
saying that it was driven by higher
assets all around. And and I should just
emphasize that Goldman Sachs also
putting a lot of focus on their asset
management business in this quarter too.
Again, because of margins, their margins
are also looking at something like 30%,
that's up from the mid20s just a few
years ago, setting really big goals when
it comes to both fundraising and a goal
of by 2030 750 billion under management.
But again, the eye-catching one, it has
to be this trading figure from Goldman
Sachs when it comes to equities. $4.3
billion compared to an estimate of $3.65
billion. It's been a battle between
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley on who
has the bigger business. It's been going
back and forth repeatedly. Morgan
Stanley won it for two consecutive
quarters. Goldman retains the crown this
morning.
>> It's a massive number. Danny, thanks for
the recap. Appreciate the wrap-up. Thank
you very much. Morgan Stanley, by the
way, in the pre-market up by more than
2%. Morgan Stanley last year, Lisa,
higher by more than 40. The rally
continues this morning.
>> Yeah. So they were up by 38% in the past
12 months, but Goldman Sachs was up by
54%. Do you know that I suspect that in
the sea suite they have a dart board in
Morgan Stanley with Goldman Sachs
throwing it at it and
>> faces of Solomon and Pic with
>> Morgan Stanley? What's wrong with you?
>> Dark.
>> Brutal. Why do we have to make it so
dark? Fantastic.
>> I think that they really enjoy the
competition and I think that this is
clearly their neck and neck and both
enjoying this environment. I had to ask
the TMZ question. That's what everybody
always does when these come out, but the
truth is they both had pretty incredible
quarters.
>> That wraps up the earnings on Wall
Street for you. Morgan Stanley higher by
1.7% in the pre-market. With an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn
for more. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hi John. Well, let's recap those
figures. Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley rounding out this big week when
it comes to bank earnings, the
universals at least. Goldman reporting
global banking and markets net revenues
for the fourth quarter that beat the
average analyst estimate. Morgan Stanley
posting a beat as Wealth Management net
revenue exceeded expectations and shares
of both, as you can see, higher in the
pre-market.
Amazon is challenging Sax's bankruptcy
financing. The online retailer is
claiming the department store chain
breached a deal and that its $475
million equity investment is quote
presumptively worthless. In 2024, Amazon
took a minority stake in the retailer as
part of an agreement that helped
facilitate Sax's acquisition of Neiman
Marcus.
Rishmon sales jumped to a record in the
final months of last year. The company's
jewelry division saw 14% growth in its
fiscal third quarter, topping
expectations. Cartier is experiencing a
strong boost in popularity with
celebrities like Taylor Swift and
Timothy Chalamé helping boost demand.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next on the program, betting on
the bulls.
>> We're risk right now as we start 2026.
>> This is a market that's very hard to
depress. There's no bears when it comes
to strategists and there are certain
signs of complacency.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jason
Thomas of Car live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are positive here across the
board. We're high up by a third of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100, up by
0.8%. The outlook from TSMC in Asian
trading really lifting tech equities. So
that's the story on the NASDAQ. The
story for the financials this morning,
these two names right here in the last
20 minutes, Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs. A record equity trading call from
Goldman Sachs, a record for Wall Street
for the final three months of the year.
Our stock is still down by 0.9%. Given
the rally we've seen after the last 12
months or so, this is what we've seen
all week from the financials. Even those
that put up fantastic numbers, the stock
is trading lower. There's one exception,
and we'll see if this move sticks.
Numbers from Morgan Stanley. The stock
is up by 1.8%. A solid quarter from Ted
Pick and the team.
>> Yeah, and it really has come across the
board. In particular, wealth management
and wealth management has been the jewel
with revenue coming in at 8.4 billion
versus 8.3 billion expected. This to me
is really going to be the key. How much
is this going to be a question of some
of these banks proving that they are
poised to truly outperform in an
environment that seems to be
increasingly tricky for the remainder of
this year?
>> Morgan Stanley trading higher in the
pre-market so far this morning. Under
Savanis this morning betting on the
bulls.
>> We're risk right now as we start 2026.
There is still room to run here.
>> This is a market that's very hard to
depress. There's no bears when it comes
to strategists and there are certain
signs of complacency.
>> We think people are sleeping on the
macro risk. This is not going to be
smooth sailing for 12 months of the
year.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street expecting the US stock market to
rally for a fifth consecutive year.
Jason Thomas, the head of global
research and investment strategy at Carl
writing heading into 26 the consensus
view is broadly constructive. Rather
than simply accept it, we want to test
its durability. Jason joins us now for
more. Jason, really thoughtful outlook
for the year ahead. Let's get into some
of this. How are you testing the
durability of the consensus view?
>> Well, I think we would start with Fed
policy. Uh there right now there's
expectations for two rate cuts. That
seems reasonable. But if you look at
options, uh the options markets on on
forward rates on futures imply that uh
there seven cuts are as likely as one
hike. So, it's essentially a a market
that that really is not at all worried
about higher rates and and thinks that
there's some potential for rates to be
by 2 2% by year end. What what I find
interesting is that this comes at the
same time that all anyone in Washington
DC can discuss is affordability.
So here you have a federal agency that
is tasked with price stability that is
expected to ease policy somewhat and and
potentially quite a lot depending on uh
change of management. At the same time
that that voters uh the electorate is
really quite upset about what has been a
cumulative 25% increase in consumer
prices over the last 5 years. And so I
wonder as we approach the the midterm
election to what extent some of these
concerns about affordability may
essentially bleed over onto Fed policy
and and uh policy makers, elected
officials start to wonder why it is uh
that that policy is moving in an
accommodative direction or or perhaps if
policy is already too accommodative.
>> So Jason, I want you to sort of build on
some of this because the push coming
from the White House right now is
actually for lower interest rates. The
Federal Reserve as you know can do
something about the price level. I think
I imagine a lot of people won't like it
and what it could mean ultimately is a
lot of unemployment and much much
tighter financial conditions. Is there
any reason they'd move in the latter
direction and not the former?
>> Well, yeah. Well, I I think that
obviously when when you look at the
movement in rates since September of
2024 when the Fed first started this
this cutting cycle, you have base rates
that are now down by 175 basis points.
That's great. Uh but of course you have
a 10-year yield that's up by about 45
basis points over the same period of
time. So when you look at the
economically sensitive interest rates
further out on the yield curve, there
hasn't been much movement. And and I
think that that is you could have a
situation where seemingly tighter policy
being less likely to cut short rates
actually uh is something that that
causes term premia to compress and and
guide some of those longerterm rates
down which of course would be quite
helpful to the mortgage market to to you
know broader discount rates and again
those economically sensitive financing
costs. Do you think that this is an
overly complacent market to the upside
given the fact that potentially you
could see exactly what you're talking
about that the politicization of the Fed
could potentially even keep them on hold
for longer which could mean that
actually term premium compressed and it
actually gives a tailwind to some of the
benefits that we're seeing in markets. I
you know I I just find the the
independence debate interesting because
again we we always think of it in terms
of having a Fed that is free to to plot
its own course not do the bidding of
elected officials but also there there
has been some insulation from political
pressures which is to say that over the
last two years there's been an asymmetry
in Fed policy inflation which they
haven't hit their inflation target in in
I think 57 months
is always explained away. It's
transitory. Oh, that this is just
tariffs. Uh we're looking through that
where where there's any signs of
weakness in the unemployment market is
met with very forceful response. I think
back to October, November of 2021. It
was the first time in my career where a
Fed chair was testifying in front of
Congress and you really got a palpable
sense that the members of Congress were
much more hawkish than he was. that they
were asking why is it that you've not
moved policy as yet? You know, why not
just increasing interest rates, but why
are you still purchasing assets at this
clip? Of course, that was when the Fed
pivoted uh several months later, March
2022 is when they first raised rates.
And and so there is not just this this
question of independence again, the
ability to act of your own accord.
There's also a question of well, if the
voters are really upset about the the
way that you've allowed cumulative
inflation to so far exceed target, don't
you have some obligation to take that
into your into account when when setting
policy?
>> Jason, based on that, would you take the
other side of the sell America trade?
Would you say that actually uh you are
bullish on the institution considering
the fact that there has been this
insulation to some of the political
influence at a time where the consensus
right now is to look outside of the US
and to diversify abroad.
>> I think that in the United States what
we see is is a diversification into
cyclicals into value. So in the market
itself it it's not simply sell America
buy the rest of the world. You know,
obviously the valuation ratios are
cheaper elsewhere and and and that uh
attraction I certainly understand, but
there's also a lot in the US that looks
cheap and and you see this year uh there
there has been a fairly sizable rotation
into some of those other sectors and and
we may see that as well and and I think
just generally this very positive market
backdrop. the degree of optimism that
you see in in virtually every strategist
report is something that that actually
suggests there's a lot of room to run in
in value and cyclicals going forward. I
would also note that speaking to some
large capital allocators at the end of
last year, I think they started to get
somewhat uneasy recognizing that
virtually all of their incremental risk
budget has been consumed by data centers
and other AI thematics over the last 18
months. So I think that there could be
also a rotation where you're selling
down some of that exposure and and and
trying to diversify again into value
value uh cyclicals uh elsewhere in in
this economy.
>> Well, PIMCO told the FT today that given
the quite unpredictable environment of
this administration, they're having a
multi-year period of diversification
from the US. Do you think if anyone
starts to diversify, it'll be for many
years?
>> I think it's a long-term process. Again,
start initial conditions are so
important to keep in mind because at the
start of last year, you had the US
equity market that accounted for an
all-time high of global stock market
capitalization with many indexes. The US
up from about 45% a decade earlier to
2/3. Uh you had a dollar on on a real uh
exchange rate basis that was about 25%
above longer term trends. uh so you know
that that this a long-term process of
diversification is is quite
understandable. I do think the
administration w would not uh you know
they would not have a problem uh with
with some gradual dollar depreciation
from here again that that could be
affectuated by some of that
diversification. So yeah, I I think on a
longer term basis, it's reasonable. But
but I don't think anyone should panic
about that or or or look at it as as as
uh you know, especially troublesome
because again that the US was so
overweight in virtually every portfolio.
>> Jason, always thoughtprovoking.
Appreciate your time today. Thank you,
sir. Jason Thomas there of Carl on how
the remedies to the affordability crisis
might shape market outcomes. Something
for us all to think about going into the
year ahead. Up next, we'll catch up with
Jonathan Golib of Seapport Research
Partners.
This is a market that's very hard to
depress.
>> Some of the weakness is going to get
overlooked in Q4, but the outlook has to
be optimistic for this rally to
continue.
>> You have, you know, a really good
environment, I think, for crossmarket
positioning.
>> There'll be winners and losers.
>> I do anticipate that this quarter we
will continue to see some broadening and
rotation. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. A better
morning for tech thanks to TSMC. The
NASDAQ 100 is up by 0.9%. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 up by 0.4. Check out the
banks. All the banks that have reported
over the last couple of days, no matter
how good the numbers are, have traded
lower by the end of that day. There is
one exception so far this morning and we
will see if that sticks. It's Morgan
Stanley and it's higher by almost 1%.
>> Yeah. And it comes after they also came
out with huge quarter in terms of just
what their revenue is, net interest
income, investment banking. At the same
time, how much is this just where the
bar was versus uh what they delivered
more than anything else? Because you
could say this about any of the banks. I
mean, you get the numbers in a vacuum,
and you couldn't have predicted the
results in terms of what the market's
response would be. The bottom line is
they're minting money. They're doing
very well, and it's a question of how
much people expect that to continue and
how high the bar was heading into this.
>> Over the last 12 months, the previous
year, these are names that rallied 20,
30, 40, 50% year to date through last
year. Trying to add some weight to that
for Morgan Stanley. It's an effort.
We're up by 9 cents of 1% for that name
in the pre-market. It's also why people
like Jerro Cassidy of RBC is looking
elsewhere. He's saying yes, the
companies are doing well. They'll
continue to do well, but because of the
rally we've already seen, he's looking
to the regionals and the smaller
players.
>> And that's what you've seen uh more
broadly in markets because the large
caps more broadly have been doing so
well that people are looking beyond some
of the smaller companies, small caps,
equal weight, and that is true very much
in the banking sector as well. I also do
wonder about the costs and Danny
mentioned this and I think that this is
an interesting one. how much costs are
increasingly in focus even as banks say
we need to spend a lot on AI to keep up
people in the market are still skeptical
which is interesting at a time of
efficiency where they're talking about
cutting back on the margins in their
staffing
>> they're in focus in the firing line down
in Washington DC as well and that's a
change
>> yes
>> one of the long trades I think of the
last year has been the financials
primarily because and not just because
the economy was okay but primarily
because of the regulatory backdrop just
feels like there was a bit of a turn in
the last few weeks on that front
>> last year is all about deregulation,
this excitement for mergers and
acquisitions and IPOs and all those to
pick up and the deal makers, the banks
being able to get some of those fees.
This year, we're starting the year with
targets on their backs when it comes to
credit card fees. The president talking
about potentially wanting this idea of
capping interest rates on credit cards
at 10%. And then also putting out on
Truth Social, take a look at Senator
Roger Marshall's bill that's been there
since 2023 when it comes to competition
in this space. something might get done.
Maybe not as aggressive, but something
might get done when it comes to credit
cards as the president is gearing
towards the midterm election. And he's
calling people on the very far left to
join with him to get this over the
finish line.
>> This was a big consensus long for the
last couple of years. And I would just
say sentiment, bullish sentiment just
slowly chipped away by Washington DC
over the last week or so. Morgan Stanley
is doing okay just about. We'll see if
this holds. We're up by 0.4% in the
pre-market. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Jonathan Golib of Seapport
Research Partners as stocks bounce back.
Republican Congressman French Hill as
big banks are pushing back against
President Trump's credit card cap and
the Continental Resources Chairman
Harold Ham as the US officially begins
selling Venezuelan crude. We begin this
out with stocking Kaya aiming to recover
from their first back-to-back losses of
the year so far. Jonathan Golib of
Seapport Research Partners is one of the
biggest BS on the street expecting the
S&P to reach 7,800 this year. He writes,
"We're increasing our 25 to 27 earnings
forecast to reflect recent strength in
surprises and revisions." Jonathan joins
us now for more. Jonathan, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get into the importance of
earnings. I've said this a few times
over the past few weeks that if you ask
people to guess what drove returns in
the last 12 months based on headlines
that have said it must have been all
multiples. Everyone was worried about
bubbles, but it was all earnings or or
albeit most of it was earnings.
>> Yeah. Matter of fact, I mean, I would
take the opposite side of the
conversation on on banks. Last quarter,
um, banks, not banks, but financials
broadly grew their earnings 25%
year-over-year, and it looks like this
quarter is going to be only probably low
double digits. Um, but that's half the
the the growth rate. And so, it really
is earnings. Tech of, you know, of all
things, the earnings grew 7 and 12%
faster than the prices went up. and tech
became substantially cheaper as the year
went on. It's all about earnings.
>> Deceleration matters, though. Why do you
think even with a decelerating earnings
profile, close to double digits, which
any other year would sound great, but
off the back of the year we've just had,
maybe it's not that good. Why is that
still supportive for equities?
>> Um well, first of all, if you look at
the single most important thing is the
what what we call revisions, the change
in estimates. It's not the growth rate.
Um so far this you know if you look at
this quarter or the full year 2026
estimates have been rising dramatically.
What it says is that analysts continue
to underestimate in particular the
growth potential of these big AI tech
names but even the broad market the
estimates keep getting ratcheted higher.
So um it's typical that analysts come
out with their estimates for 26. They're
too high and they fall over time. Those
estimates are doing something very
unusual. the estimates are actually
being adjusted up, not down. And that I
think is probably the most important
thing.
>> So I'm confused. Take a step back.
You're saying that okay, yes, there is
this upward revision when it comes to
the earnings, but it's a downward uh
reality versus the end of last year, at
least when it comes to the big banks.
Are you saying that the move lower is
justified or not on some of these
financial stocks after really incredible
earnings?
>> First, I would be leaning into the
financials. And I and I think that there
was a theme that that you talked about
in your in your last segment with with
Jason, which I think the the the
difference between 25 and 26 is the
focus we're going to have on the midterm
elections. And it's all about this
affordability concept. And it's not
about the Fed tightening things up. It's
about the administration and Washington
putting money in people's hands. This
whole discussion about credit cards is
to say, "I hear you, Mr. Consumer, or
Mrs. Consumer. we're going to give you
some relief. Home affordability is a
really big um issue. I was just looking
at this on my Bloomberg terminal
yesterday. So, what do you do? We you
buy $200 billion dollar worth of
mortgages. You force the banks to hold
more of it. I would expect to see that
under new Fed leadership that you're
going to see this whole rolling off of
mortgage paper. That's going to get
changed. And I think that what you're
going to feel is at least a strong
gesture that the consumer is is is being
heard as as an election issue. So the
financials are going to be front and
center. The credit card issue is not a
positive one, but it's still part of a
theme which is we need to help the
consumer
>> and they're going to find a way to do
that while not necessarily kneecapping
the banks. That's sort of the point that
you're making. I am wondering if there's
a a bigger question underpinning some of
these earnings result in particular from
Goldman Sachs where they delivered an
unprecedented year in equities and yet
people are focusing on operating costs
that are rising 18% year-over-year. Do
you think increasingly that is the right
tactic to take to penalize companies
that are spending significantly more as
they try to build out their tech and
beyond?
>> I I don't think that's where the focus
is going to be. I think the focus is
going to be on a continuation of a
strong M&A environment which puts a back
stop under smaller companies in
particular. It's one of the reasons why
small companies um non-earning small
companies had a great year because they
the market was saying is we can you know
there's a backs stop that you can be
bought in an M&A transaction. Um I think
that corporate credit as long as it's
behaving well is going to do well and I
think spreads are going to surprise
everyone again and be tighter. We we
could take a pinky bet on that one. Um
you'll be on the other side of my trade.
Um but but last year last year, you
know, again, right off the Bloomberg
terminal, you had a decline in high
yield spreads and nobody thought that
that was uh possible. It's all about the
backdrop for a functioning economy and
all indications are it's going to be uh
it's going to be supportive.
>> Well, it's a midterm election year as
you pointed out. Which industries do you
think will do well or not do well and
how do you game that out? The president,
you mentioned housing, you mentioned
credit cards, but the president also
told the defense sector he doesn't want
to see buybacks and dividends.
>> I think there's going to be two very
disparit themes. I think one is the tech
companies right now look like they're
going to deliver very strong earnings
growth. Again, something it's going to
probably be in the mid20s, which
compared to the rest of the market that
may be low single digits. That's that's
an enormous number and it's very hard
for it not to do well. Separate from
that, if if you believe that we're going
to address affordability, there are two
sectors in focus. Consumer discretionary
um is going to surprise to the upside. I
would watch housing. The housing stocks
uh stocks popped really big um a little
while ago when you had this buyback uh
this this purchase of mortgage
discussion. I think that that's an area
that's going to continue to do well.
It's not only the homebuilders, the
whole suite of housing stocks is going
to do well and the financials. Um,
putting aside the current conversation
about credit cards, the only way to
boost the consumer is to make credit
available for the consumer to purchase.
>> Let's finish by making it really simple
for those at home right now. They just
want to sit in the index market cap or
equal weight. What is it for the end of
the year?
>> I'd have to say it's not going to be as
big as it's been in the past. I would
say probably the cap weighted benchmark.
>> Okay. Going against the early grain at
the start of 26. Jonathan, it's good to
see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thank you, sir. Jonathan Goliv there
research partners. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Republican Senator
Tom Tillis telling Bloomberg he's
concerned the DOJ's criminal probe
threatens Fed independence. Tillis says
he'll block Fed nominations until the
investigation is resolved. In response,
Senator Tillis and other GOP lawmakers
who are critical of the Fed
investigation. President Trump saying
quote, "I don't care and they should be
loyal."
The US State Department is set to stop
issuing immigrant visas to people from
75 countries. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the order is likely to target
foreigners that authorities believe
could require public assistance while
living in the US. Impacted countries
include Brazil, Somalia, and Iran.
Amazon is utilizing an Arizona mine to
meet its data centers need for copper.
The tech giant signed a two-year supply
pack to Rio Tinto's Newton venture.
However, the Newton copper will satisfy
only a sliver of Amazon's needs. As part
of the deal, Amazon will supply Rio with
cloud computing and data analytics. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonnie later this
hour. Up next, the Morning Cause. Plus,
Republican Congressman French Hill as
big banks push back against President
Trump's proposed credit card cap. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
We think the play for 2026 is financial.
So, we're still there, but we think the
leadership may change to the regionals.
The investment banks have put up very
strong numbers, but we've already baked
them into the models. So when you think
about the second derivative, the rate of
change year-over-year for the investment
banks is going to get more difficult
through the year. Whereas in the
regional banks, I think it's going to
improve.
>> That's the call from Gerard Cassidy of
RBC following some big results from big
banks this week that have not delivered
big gain to the stock market at least
over the last few days. Equity futures
still elevated though up by 0.4% on the
S&P and the NASDAQ 100 higher by 0.9.
The likes of Morgan Stanley very much in
focus. Brammo tracking the stock price
in the pre-market numbers great stock
price reaction Matt stocks up by about a
quarter of 1%.
>> Honestly, this is the reason why I was
saying I can't give you a reason. I
mean, yes, you could look at the uh
earnings and come up with an with some
kind of uh number like this $785
million. That is the debt underwriting
revenue that came in for the last three
months of the year. That was uh compared
to $635 million. It was expected. You
can point to all these things, but all
of the banks have those numbers. This is
the thing. So trying to create a
narrative that actually hangs together
and lasts to the end of the trading
session is going to be very different.
>> That's why I keep asking, I don't want
your outlook for the company. You're
going to tell a great story. There's a
good story to tell. I want your outlook
for the stock. It's already rallied so
much. And we often say on this program,
you can learn something from the
information and learn something from how
the stock rep responds to the
information. You're learning a lot from
the latter right now.
>> Right now, what you're learning is that
people are worried and they want to uh
see whether they can actually see the
same kind of growth rate. I mean, the
fact that Goldman Sachs raised their
dividend by 50 cents and that people are
just like, "Me, show me something else."
They delivered on a whole bunch of
different metrics and still people are
not impressed highlights that people
feel like maybe these shares have gone a
little bit too far, too fast over the
past 12 months.
>> Early days, we'll see how these stocks
respond as the session grows older. At
the moment, we're positive by only a
quarter of 1% on Morgan Stanley. That's
the price action. Let's turn to your
morning calls. First up, Barclays
upgrading Delta overweight, noting
strong orders for its AI servers. Your
second call from Wells Fargo, upgrading
Broadcom to Overweight, seeing upside
from Google's TPU demand. And finally,
Bernstein raising his price target on
Boeing, naming it the firm's top
aerospace and defense pick for the year.
Let's turn to Washington. President
Trump reaching across the aisle, asking
Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren to
support his effort to cap credit card
interest rates at 10% after facing
opposition from his own party. The
Republican Congressman French Hill,
chairman of the House Financial Services
Committee, joins us now from Capitol
Hill to respond to that. and a whole lot
more. Congressman, it's good to see you,
sir. History is littered with examples,
full of examples that when you introduce
price controls, you end up with
restricted supply. Congressman, is this
proposal going to end up any
differently?
Well,
>> happy new year, Jonathan. Great to be
with you. Congratulations on becoming a
dad. So happy for you and your family.
Look, uh, this proposal is a price
control and I think I've heard from
Republicans in the House that they have
concerns about it. What we are in
agreement with President Trump on is
that we want to reverse the curse of the
Biden years and taxation, regulatory,
and uh, government policies. So, we want
to work to pass by 21st century housing
act, which would lower home construction
costs. We want to pass the Main Street
Capital Access Act, which would lower
compliance cost and refocus the bank uh
regulators on safety and soundness,
tailoring regulations to bank
complexity. And when you think about the
regional banks you just talked about and
the community banks, particularly those
banks under $10 billion, they make 60%
of the 1 to four family home loans in
this country. So we believe that with
the tax benefits from the one big
beautiful bill uh lowering compliance
costs focusing and tailoring regulations
and focusing on uh dropping the
regulatory burdens and trying to build
homes in this country. These are boish
signs for the GDP for the for the
nation. We don't want to do anything
that throws off that gross domestic
product. And one of the things I heard
from colleagues is twothirds of GDP in
the US is consumption. And so if credit
availability is denied or reduced, that
could impact growth for 2026.
>> Congressman, do you think the proposal
as it stands could have a chilling
effect on credit?
Well, I think this is what people uh
that I've heard from in the House
Republican conference have said to me is
they think, gosh, this could mean that
those Americans with lower credit scores
have their credit curtailed in some way
even by a temporary
uh in proposal like this. And you know,
we've campaigned against government
price controls in the 2024 election and
Kla Harris's efforts to put in
nationwide rent control, for example.
Congressman, which is why it's so
curious. The president is getting on the
phone with the likes of Senator
Elizabeth Warren and continuously has
this text exchange we've learned through
Axios with Zorum Mandani. Do you think
he is moving too far to the left and
almost out of where your party is?
>> Well, I just think that Republicans uh
want to work with President Trump to
accomplish his goal. reverse the curse
of the Biden policies and regulation,
taxation,
open up uh the economy besides our tax
policy and the big beautiful bill. I
really believe that our Main Street
Capital Access Act will make capital
more available for small businesses all
across the uh the nation, produce
economic growth, particularly in the
home building area. Mike Flood's 21st
century housing bill that we put
together lowers regulatory costs on
building new homes, opens up uh things
like the home program and the CDBG
program to private sector partnerships
to build more housing. We want more
housing available. We want better at
better prices and that's the tact that
we're taking. I think these are the
priorities of the president.
Congressman, as the chair of the
Financial Services Committee, have you
spoken to Chair Jay Powell since the
subpoena was delivered to him from the
DOJ?
>> I have. Chairman Pal called and told me
that this process was uh taking place.
>> And does he have plans to come to the
Hill to testify?
>> Well, we've invited the chairman to
testify for his semianual Humphrey
Hawkins testimony, and we're working out
the date now. We'll do that typically in
coordination both with the Fed and with
the Senate Banking Committee so that we
can get the Fed uh chairman up for his
semiannual testimony on the Hill.
>> Congressman, do you agree with the
efforts put forward by Senator uh
Tillis, talking about potentially stying
any of the candidates that President
Trump is putting forward or will put
forward for the Federal Reserve until
this subpoena is removed or this issue
is resolved?
Well, you know, my attitude about this
is really simple, which is uh Fed
independence doesn't mean the Fed's
immune from criticism or governors at
the Fed are immune from criticism. And
if people have questions and concerns
about the construction project down
there, about how it expensive it is to
build something in Washington DC, how
expensive it is to build something after
a 40-year high in inflation from the Fed
and fiscal policy mistakes made at the
end of the pandemic, those are
legitimate questions. But to try to
criminalize it uh and threaten people
with a grand jury over uh disputes about
that construction, I I just I don't
agree with that. And I think the the
Congress can do oversight about the
construction project. And I think, as I
said in my statement, I think this is a
distraction from our partnership with
President Trump in lowering uh cost of
living for our citizens through access
to increasing access to capital,
lowering the cost of building a home in
this country, getting the economy
growing, uh along with all the
improvements, the tremendous
improvements we've had for working
families that we passed in the one big
beautiful bill last year. Do you think
that it's actually illegitimate this uh
particular subpoena?
>> Well, I don't know that it's
illegitimate because I'm not at the
Justice Department and I'm not the US
attorney for the District of Columbia.
I'd say it is in my personal opinion an
overreaction to uh concerns about the
construction at the Fed and I don't
agree with that approach.
>> You've been friends with him for
decades. Do you think he added to this
distraction by coming out with a rare
video as the markets were opening up in
Asia instead of just replying to the
subpoena?
>> Yeah, I think we'll always second guess
whenever we make a public statement as a
public figure. I won't I won't uh second
guess the decision that he took uh about
that. Uh I'll just let it let it play
out the way it is. But I do uh believe
that trying to criminalize that kind of
behavior, I just don't agree with that.
How delayed do you think this could make
going through the process of the next
Fed chair?
>> Well, I think it could throw it off
track. I think it's a distraction to
Treasury Secretary Bessence, very able
partnership with the president to
identify a new Fed chair, something
they've worked on for months. And the
president uh has had interviews
consistently over the last few weeks and
he's close to taking a decision. And
that this decision, whoever made the
recommendation to do this, I think was a
mistake because I think, as I've said,
it distracts from our economic agenda,
benefiting working families with lower
cost and more accessibility to capital
and housing, and it's a distraction to
Treasury Secretary Bessant and President
Trump's excellent work to identify a new
leader for the Federal Reserve,
something that we want and we want
clarity on on Capitol Hill. So that's
that's why I think whoever made a
recommendation like this was not wise.
>> It hasn't been a distraction for markets
though. They pretty much shrugged it
off. Do you think the markets don't view
this as as real threat to independence?
>> That's possible. I don't know that it's
a threat to independence. I think it's a
distraction to the work we're trying to
do here to move the economy forward to
complement the big tax changes we made
to benefit working families last year.
We want to do the same thing this year
to open up regulatory policy, make it
easy not only just to permit uh the
growth of the energy industry in the
country and critical minerals. These are
goals of the president, but we also want
to reduce that regulatory burden on
housing construction and capital access
for the American economy. And if we
don't have a nominated and confirmed
Federal Reserve chair, that's a
distraction to getting that done in the
right way. And I think it throws the
president's mission off track. That's
why I called it a distraction. I'm
sticking with it.
>> Congressman, always appreciate your
time, sir, and thank you for the
congratulations. I promise you this.
I'll introduce the little guy to SEC
football later this year. I can't make a
promise that he's going to be a
Razerback fan, though. Okay. He's got to
be a winning team. French,
>> something we got to talk about.
>> We'll try and work it out. Congressman,
thank you. Congressman French Hill with
the latest. I think pretty clear on
where he stands on the issues around the
Federal Reserve.
>> I thought you were going to say Baby
Pharaoh was going to get introduced to
the SEC and the regulations around the
SEC. you're going to go to that
football.
>> Yeah. But it's clear where he stands. He
basically is saying, "Look, it seems
like this is an overreaction. It's a
distraction." And he wants to focus on
some of the gains they have made. And I
guess that the key question is, "How do
you do that when people are not feeling
it yet?" At least according to a lot of
this a lot of the polling
>> and he's working right now with the Fed,
he said, to bring Powell up to the hill
for this testimony. I didn't realize his
team was not a winning team. That's sad.
>> I know. Not great. Not great. Things can
change though. You're feeling sorry for
him.
>> Come on, French Hill. That's sad the way
you've said that. So much pity.
>> Well, you need bragging rights in
Washington about something.
>> Of course you do.
>> So, be a Mets fan.
>> Yeah, sure. How's that going?
>> Really, really well. I'm glad it's not
baseball season.
>> Let's get you some data. Up next, we'll
catch up with Nila Richardson of ADP.
>> The opening pound's about 60 minutes
away. Futures do an okay higher by 0.4%.
4% that's on the S&P 500. Check out the
NASDAQ up by 0.9. Check this out in the
pre-market. So, tech stories good today
thanks to the outlook from Taiwan
Semiconductors.
Got it right. TSMC, brilliant. Check out
the banks. Morgan Stanley coming out
with some fantastic numbers and the
stock is now down by 0.8%. Goldman's
down by two and we saw this from bank
after bank after bank over the previous
two days.
>> And honestly, give me a reason. I mean,
you could pick one, but it's nitpicking
because ultimately the actual numbers
are tremendous. I mean, when you take a
look at the record highs in Goldman
Sachs, at the record gains that you've
seen in Morgan Stanley, you look at the
dividend increase for Goldman Sachs, the
only thing you can really point to is a
54% gain in Goldman Sachs shares over
the past year and a 38% gain in Morgan
Stanley shares over the past year. And
people saying maybe we've gone a little
bit too far and that might be what we're
seeing this morning.
>> Want to watch into the opening bell
about 60 minutes away. Got to look for
the data as well. Just kind of drip
dripping out at the moment. Mike McKe's
got a look an early look at some of the
numbers. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. We are waiting for
jobless claims to drop. It would be the
first week outside of the holiday
period, so maybe give us a little bit
better read on where we are. But in the
meantime, the Philadelphia Fed has come
out with uh their index. It's 12.6
from a negative 8.8. So, an improvement
there. We're also seeing an improvement
in the Empire index for uh New York 7.7
from -3.7.
And also I I was looking at the details
of the Empire index. Pretty much
everything up across the board except
for uh employment. Now speaking of
employment, a big drop again in jobless
claims. 198,000.
Last week's 208 has been revised down by
a,000 to 207,000.
So uh drop below 200,000 now could still
be holiday related but uh this is
definitely not in the weeks when the
holidays were handled. The uh four-we
continue or the continuing claims rather
1,884,000
down from 1,93
and then import prices are up just a
tenth of a percent. So, it doesn't look
like we're seeing a big increase in uh
countries raising prices on what they're
exporting to the United States because
of tariffs.
>> Mike, 198. I mean, you've covered this
for a long long time. How low is that
number? 198,000.
>> Well, it's a it's a very very low
number. It's certainly not the record in
recent uh months, but or years, but uh
what we're seeing is certainly a growing
labor force. There are a lot more
Americans out there. So, there more
Americans working. So, uh, the number of
jobless claims falling just tells you
that the, uh, labor market is holding in
there. We're not seeing people losing
jobs, and the number gets more
impressive in terms of a percentage of
labor force as it continues to go down.
>> It's incredibly impressive, Mike. Thank
you, sir. Mike McKe with the latest. An
impressive jobs number, jobless claims
number of just 198,000.
>> As you would say, as a sage I once knew
said, it's the right kind of downside
surprise. And what you're seeing right
now is a market response that really
does highlight how much the Fed's going
to look at this. And anyone who's
anything close to resembling a hawk is
going to get some sort of sense that
maybe they don't have to cut rates so
quickly. And you're seeing two-year
yields rise to the highest levels, some
of the highest levels we've seen since
the end of last year. I mean, it just
raises this question, you know, where is
the urgency here? Is this a
deteriorating labor market or based on
the economic indicators from
Philadelphia and New York paired with
this jobless claims number? Are we
looking at an economy that's actually
firming up and a labor market that
actually could be improving, not
deteriorating?
>> If I came back from a year off, never
mind a month, and you showed me one data
point and it was jobless claims, and I
looked at that, I'd be like,
"Everything's okay. There's nothing
wrong here. Labor market's rock solid."
That's very, very impressive. And to
your point, yields up at the front end
up by three basis points on a two-year
on 10's up by two. still very very
rangebound on a 10-year maturity. That
yield at the moment about 415 416. Nila
Richardson of ADP needs to explain
what's going on here. Neil, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> How do you explain how we're sitting
here worried about a labor market? The
Fed's just cut rates by what, 75 basis
points over the period of 6 months or
so, and yet we've got jobless claims at
198.
>> Well, I wrote on Tuesday that the labor
market is tighter than we think. And
that's how you explain it. Um what we're
seeing is that uh it's a labor market
where there's as been said before little
hiring, little layoffs, but also pay
growth has been robust throughout 2025.
And let me tell you what that means. Let
me unpack that because we spend a lot of
attention on the monthly jobs numbers.
We need to spend more attention on the
wage numbers because they tell the
complete story. And that story is that
workers are largely staying put. They
have very little desire to rush out and
quit their jobs, but employers are
having to pay them more to stay in
place. So when you look at the wage
premium between a job stayer and a job
changer, it is very low. We calculate
it, we clock that at less than 3% going
back over the course of the year. But
the pay levels, the growth levels are
high. 4.4% for job stayers, 6.6% 6% for
job changers who are sensitive to this
labor market. It's taking more pay
growth to keep a worker and that's
adding to cost.
>> Now, typically that's what you see in an
expanded economy. Typically, what it's
what you see in a very tight labor
market.
>> I still don't understand why the Fed's
cutting in that kind of environment.
What's gone wrong here? What's happened?
>> The theme of 2026 is perception versus
reality.
>> Explain. When I look across the board at
all the economic indicators, they are so
strong. I mean, wage growth is strong.
Uh you look at uh GDP growth is strong,
retail sales is strong. The only thing
that seems weak to me other than these
pretty modest uh job gains is consumer
sentiment. Why is sentiment so sour when
everything it looks so great? Even our
infrastructure graders, the civil
engineers recently put out a report that
America's infrastructure is getting a
solid C. Engineers are the hardest
graders in the world. Everyone knows
that. My son is finding it out this
year. Um, but they're still grading at
higher grade levels than they have
historically. So, America looks strong,
but sentiment looks bad. And there's a
reason for that. Perception is different
than reality. Well, how much is this
also that we're talking about averages
and not necessarily the different tiers
of earners and it could be that say the
top tiers of earners are doing really
well are seeing their productivity
increase and are seeing their pay their
wages or take-home pay increase
substantially and that people at the
lower end who are employed in low wage
work are not seeing those increases and
are seeing the inflation that are coming
on the heels of what's happening at the
top tier.
>> Lisa, you just hit the point, right? um
underscoring that perception versus
reality. Another way to say that is
micro versus macro. And when you look at
the granularity of job changes, what
you're seeing is it is not equal. Where
we're seeing the highest paid growth is
not where we're seeing the most job
growth. And that is key. You're seeing
high pay growth in in trades like
construction tied to data centers for
example, but you're not seeing a lot of
job growth there. And there are
demographic and structural reasons to
that. And even if you unpack this uh
wage distribution over time, what you're
seeing is that lowincome workers are not
keeping pace with inflation and that is
very different than three years ago when
they were outpacing in terms of income
gains. So yes, there is a lot of action
going on underneath the service of the
macro indicators that point to a
widening and widening of the top earners
and the bottom. And just adding to this
sentiment that is very reality based,
which is that people who are making a
lot of money are also seeing the use
case for their jobs go down. I'm looking
at some of the earnings that we saw,
Bank of America coming out saying that
they're going to let their headcount
shrink as they deploy more artificial
intelligence. Cityroup saying that they
are going to over the time use
automation and expect automation and AI
to potentially reduce some of the
headcount and also just increased
efficiency. I mean, how much is that
also hanging over sentiment in a way
that these numbers don't pick up?
>> Right. So, that's a structural change
that no one saw coming maybe four years
ago. I shouldn't say no one, but very
few workers saw coming. And it's now
part of the conversation. It's part of
the the hiring strategy in a way that it
hasn't been before. And it's hitting
professional white collar jobs, which
you thought would be immune to this kind
of stuff, this immune to this kind of
automation consideration. But AI has
changed all that. And so I do think that
that hearkens back to the sentiment and
to the company long-term strategy, but
this is a transition. It's not the end
of the story. Um I think that this will
be a short-lived transition because the
productivity around AI is so vast that
it's yet to hit the worker.
>> How does the Fed think of this moment?
>> So challenging.
>> I I think what they're very focused on
is the data point that drives a
decision. This is a datadriven Fed. But
the problem is the data doesn't stack up
to the decision in the way that it has
been in the past. The data is pointing
to a pretty strong economy. The data is
pointing to a pretty low unemployment
rate. And the data is pointing to
structural, not cyclical change in in
monthly job gains. And so it does put
them on the back foot when you're trying
to interpret data and use that data to
make a decision. Nila a labor market
clinic. It's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Nita Richardson there of ADP
off the back of a very low jobless
claims print. Mike McKe has more on that
number and others. He's back with us for
more. Hey Mike. Hi John. Uh one thing we
want to point out here is that some of
this is a seasonal adjustment factor.
The unadjusted number of claims total
330,684.
That's an increase of 32,000.
But the seasonals expected a bigger
increase and so have pushed down
somewhat on the seasonally adjusted
number. And this is what I find
interesting is that uh last year at this
time there were 352,357
jobless claims which is about uh 30,000
more than we saw this year. So we are
seeing a drop in even the unadjusted
numbers on a year-over-year basis in
terms of comparison. And the one other
note is that in terms of the import
prices, there's almost no data because
of the government shutdown. We saw
petroleum prices drop at 1.3%, food and
beverage prices down 7/10 and that's it.
That's all that's out there. So you
can't really put much stock in what
we're getting in terms of import prices.
No data also for October. So October,
November import prices. We'll have to
wait till those get updated down the
line.
>> Incredible. We're still recovering from
that, Mike. Thank you, sir. Appreciate
the additional clarity. the Fed's Austin
Gold Gby of Chicago speaking to the
press here in America just moments ago
still seeing strength in the US economy
which kind of echoes what Nita explained
what she's seeing in the labor market
>> which is the reason why even though Fed
chair Jay Powell has sounded a little
bit more dovish some of the members
sound a lot more hawkish than he does
when you actually hear from each one of
them they are concerned still about
inflation being above target for what
was that 57 months is that what Jason
Thomas said 57 months I believe
>> it's been a long time
>> oh my goodness
>> right never mind changing the target And
you know,
>> I mean, come on. It's been changed.
>> It's three.
>> Exactly. Look at it. They've accepted
it.
>> I mean, I think so. I think we've gotten
to that place.
>> Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere. Your news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Recapping the data
we just got then. US jobless claims
falling last week to 198,000. That's
below expectations for 215,000 and marks
an overall increase of 7,000 from the
prior week. Continuing claims came in at
about 1.88 million. That was obviously
just under the estimate for 1.9 million.
Oracle is hiring for more roles in
Nashville than any other US city. The
company currently has fewer than a
thousand workers assigned to offices in
the southern city, but aims to create
more than 8,000 jobs there by 2031.
Oracle is also planning a massive campus
in Nashville as it works to center the
city around its future.
President Trump posting on Truth Social.
He'll impose the Insurrection Act in
Minnesota if lawmakers are not able to
quell protests in the state. Last night
in Minneapolis, a demonstrator was shot
by an ICE agent. The Department of
Homeland Security says the victim tried
to flee a targeted traffic stop and
attacked an officer. That is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on our program, the Continental
Resources Chairman Harold Ham as the US
has begun selling Venezuelan crude.
Plus, Vonnie will be back with your
morning movers. Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs in Focus. Both of those names
despite some very good numbers treading
lower this morning.
in the market itself. It it's not simply
sell America, buy the rest of the world.
There's also a lot in the US that looks
cheap. I think just generally this very
positive market backdrop. The degree of
optimism that you see in in virtually
every strategist report is something
that that actually suggests there's a
lot of room to run in in value and
cyclicals going forward. Brilliant to
catch up with Jason Thomas of Carile a
little bit earlier on this morning on a
better outlook for the US economy and US
markets. A consensus view I know equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by 0.5%
on the NASDAQ 100 up by one full
percentage point. TSMC and a strong
outlook from Taiwan lifting tech stocks
this morning. But the financials, let's
have a look at the banks, your morning
movers with Volley Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Yep. record revenue in Q4 for
Goldman Sachs and in fact records all
around the block for both of these
universal banks but you know in various
different areas. So for Goldman, let's
start with Goldman. You saw net net
income hit hit a record. Equities
trading revenue in the quarter didn't
just hit a record for Goldman, it hit an
all-time Wall Street record. So Goldman
really won on the equities trading side.
Investment banking was up 25% as well at
Goldman. However, operating costs there
hit 18% year-over-year of growth. And
perhaps that is something that traders
are not enjoying or also perhaps it's a
huge run up that we've seen in Goldman's
shares over the last 12 months. Morgan
Stanley is flat right now. As you can
tell, another great quarter for Morgan.
For them, it was more the debt
underwriting. It was up 93%
year-over-year. Now, as you know, debt
was on fire. The AI deals across the
street and Morgan was involved in many
of those. But that meant that investment
banking fees from Morgan were up 47%
year-over-year. So that far outstripped
the 25% gain of Goldman. It was a year
of net record income from Morgan
Stanley. So as you can see, lower
slightly in the pre-market, but just by
a very small fraction. All right, let's
move on.
We have TSMC up 5 a.5%. So there we had
an outlook that really just blew away
estimates as well. A revenue of 30%
growth there. and also for TSMC saying
that you know they're going to be
spending as much as $56 billion this
year. So a huge outspend on the capex
that in comparison to what uh analysts
have been expecting. Now when asked if
AI demand was real the CEO CC way said
look he's asking himself that question
as well but they are going to be very
careful. Last stock we're watching today
is Spotify. It's been under a little bit
of pressure though it still is up 8%
year-over-year up 1% at the pre-market.
is coming up with an answer to increase
the subscription price by a dollar to
$12.99 a month starting next month from
$11.99. Apparently, people are getting a
little bit sick of the algorithm that
keeps presenting with them that with
their music uh that apparently is from
their taste 3 years ago and also of
course YouTube is coming for their lunch
as well.
>> There we go with the update. Vonyie,
thank you. Appreciate it. Some of the
movers to look for going into the
opening bell. Elsewhere, the US is
officially selling Venezuelan crew.
Multiple outlets reporting the Trump
administration has completed its first
sale ahead of a meeting with the
Venezuelan opposition leader later on
today. Harold Ham, the founder and
chairman of Continental Resources, the
largest privately held oil and natural
gas producer in the world joins us now.
I should add, Harold, American energy
legend, pioneer of fracking. Going to
make you sound like a sports dire. Good
to see you, sir. I know you had a
meeting with the president just last
week alongside other energy executives.
Can you give us your impression of what
things sounded like and the
opportunities available in a place like
Venezuela?
>> Well, certainly there's a lot of
resource in Venezuela as every everyone
knows and and so it's a a much safer
place today as a a result of the
president's actions. I trust the
president uh you know and taking out
this narco terrorist. Uh it's a a great
move and in this western hemisphere and
uh good things will come from it. Uh
we're already seeing some of those
develop and yes it was a very
interesting meeting uh as a lot of oil
company executives look at the
possibilities in Venezuela and assess
those.
>> Harold, are you looking at the
possibilities? How interested are you in
bringing Continental to Venezuela? you
know, as uh told the president uh you
know, Continental has a a policy of uh
first of all looking at uh uh these uh
market entries uh and into wherever we
go uh you know it doesn't matter if it's
Turkey or Argentina
uh that we've been public uh uh with our
entry there but looking first at the
credibility um the geopolitics uh
looking at the stability of the country
and and what the future like looks like.
And so we we've certainly done that and
doing that here. But first of all, look
at the rock quality and uh whether it's
worth going there period from a resource
standpoint and and Venezuela meets that
criteria, but you know, look at the
overall uh geopolitical situation, what
what that's going to look like in the
future. So, uh, that's that's what I've,
uh, you know, related to the president,
uh, and I think a lot of other
executives did the same thing.
>> Harold, what about looking at the price
of oil where it sits right now? What oil
price do you need to see in order to say
have this adventure in Venezuela than
just drilling more in the United States?
>> Well, you know, we we say that the best
cure for low prices,
uh, you know, is low prices. uh you know
it it cures it uh and and brings the
price back to where it's sustainable in
the future and and certainly you can't
produce crude below the cost of
production and uh you know we know that
and and certainly it's very cheap and uh
uh you know we we we think some things
ought to be done in US like refilling
the SPR for instance uh while while
crude is so cheap we ought to be doing
that China's doing that uh they're
ramping up their storage of uh 2 billion
barrels and the US should be doing
things like that uh while we're in this
cheap market.
>> Do you have an outlook on where prices
are going given the fact that we do see
we're going to be in a glut. There are
these reserves in Venezuela, but at the
same time there's geopolitical concerns
in the Middle East.
>> There's a lot of geopolitical
risk in in Venezuela. Uh certainly we've
we've seen uh uh companies Darren Woods
said Exxon had been there twice and been
nationalized. Uh you don't want to go
there and spend a lot of money and and
see your assets go away when
nationalization occurs. So you know
there's got to be guarantees against
that. Uh we've seen other c companies
burn real bad there. So those those uh
things certainly resonate and uh you
know you take that in consideration for
you to enter a country.
>> Are you concerned that the development
of Venezuela that the focus by the US on
more supply from OPEC will hurt the US
shale industry significantly over a
longer period of time?
I think it could, but I think it's uh
going to be so slow in development. Uh
you know, it's going to take a long
time. This is uh rough material that
comes out of there. It's uh you know,
basically bumen tar 9 degree gravity
crude. Uh takes a lot of upgrading uh to
get it to where you can market it. Uh in
fact, even move it. uh it takes requires
dilluent
uh you know condensate uh mixed with it
to move it uh so there's there's a lot
of challenges a lot of resource but a
lot of challenges so it's not going to
come on uh very quickly uh so I think as
far as the risk to American crude
there's a lot of lot of risk in the
world but I would I would say that's a
lower risk than a lot of people are
imagining
>> Harold can you talk us through the
lifespan man of shale in America. Do we
need to think beyond shale in America?
>> Okay, Jonathan, if you don't mind
repeating that. I didn't quite
>> No problem. Harold, can you talk us
through the lifespan of shale and
whether we need to think about life
beyond shale in the future?
>> Okay. Uh yeah. Well, uh, uh, I'll talk
about, uh, the storage and and, uh,
what's happened, uh, you know, with SPR.
I think that's your question. I I didn't
have a little technical problem here,
but, uh, you know, it was basically SPR
was drained by the S uh, former Biden
administration and took it down to about
half uh, full where it's at. So, uh, you
know, it we've got storage capacity
there of 700 over 700 million barrels,
740 or something like that. It's about
half full now. So, if we put a million
barrels a day, it take over a year to re
replenish it. So, it take probably a
year and a half. But, uh, it ought to be
done uh, you know, at these prices.
Certainly uh we ought to refill that uh
strategic
uh storage uh facility in US.
>> Harold, appreciate your time and our
apologies for the technical connection.
It's on our end. I believe we're going
to leave it there. Thank you very much,
sir. Harold Ham, the Continental
Resources chairman, legend of American
energy. Coming up tomorrow, Eric
Freriedman of Northern Trust, Eric
Ajaran of UBS, Steven Parker of JP
Morgan, Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.